GIRL: Water.
Earth.
Fire.
Air.
Long ago, the four nations lived together in harmony.
Then everything changed when the Fire Nation attacked.
Only the Avatar, master of all four elements, could stop them.
But when the world needed him most, he vanished.
A hundred years passed, and my brother and I discovered the new Avatar, an airbender named Aang.
And although his airbending skills are great, he has a lot to learn before he's ready to save anyone.
AANG: Oof!
But I believe Aang can save the world.
MAN: Previously on Avatar...
Don't you know fans just make flame stronger?
I am Long Feng, head of the Dai Li.
Why won't you let us talk to the king?
The Earth King has no time to get involved with political squabbles.
So the king is just a figurehead?
He's your puppet!
It's time for you to look inward, and begin asking yourself the big questions.
Who are you?
And what do you want?
I can handle you by myself.
[RUMBLING]
I missed you, buddy.
I missed you more than you'll ever know buddy.
[LAUGHING]
Look, we escaped from the Dai Li, we got Appa back, I'm telling you, we should go to the Earth King now and tell him our plan.
We're on a roll.
One good hour after weeks of trouble isn't much of a roll.
We can build on it.
If we want to invade the Fire Nation when the eclipse happens, we need the Earth King's support.
What makes you think we'll get it?
I don't know if you've noticed, but things don't usually go that smoothly for our little gang.
I know, but I've got a good feeling about this.
This time'll be different.
Sokka, Long Feng is in control of the city.
His conspiracy with the Dai Li is too powerful.
I think we should just keep flying and leave this horrible place behind us.
I'm with sweetness. I've seen enough of Ba Sing Se.
And I can't even see!
But now that we have Appa back, there's nothing stopping us from telling the Earth King the truth.
About the conspiracy and the war.
See, Aang's with me.
It's the whole reason we came here in the first place, we have to try.
Well, I guess if the Earth King knew the truth, things could change.
I don't trust the new positive Sokka.
[SHOUTING] Long Feng brainwashed you, didn't he?
That's probably the Dai Li searching for us, so?
Let's fly.
[ROARING]
Can we please buy a new saddle?
Riding bareback is terrifying.
There it is.
That whole thing is the palace.
The Earth King's chamber should be in the center.
We have to be careful.
Long Feng's probably warned the king that we're coming.
SOKKA: why would you assume that?
If you ask me, I think we're just gonna sail right... [SCREAMING]
-APPA: [RUMBLING] -What was that?
SOKKA: Surface-to-air rocks!
More incoming!
[SCREAMING]
AANG: [GRUNTING]
[SOLDIERS GRUNTING AND SCREAMING]
[GROWLING]
[SOLDIERS SCREAMING]
KATARA: Sorry!
[SOLDIERS SCREAMING]
[SCREAMING]
KATARA: Sorry, we just need to get through to see the Earth King.
[SOLDIERS GRUNTING]
[SCREAMING]
[SCREAMING]
[GRUNTING]
[SCREAMING]
[SOLDIERS SCREAMING]
SOKKA: Seriously, we're actually on your guys' side!
Sorry.
SOKKA: In there.
APPA: [RUMBLING]
[GRUNTING]
Toph, which way to the Earth King?
How should I know?
I'm still voting we leave Ba Sing Se.
SOLDIERS: Whoa!
[SOLDIER SCREAMING]
Burglar!
Sorry, wrong door.
You did the right thing.
Letting the Avatar's bison go free.
I don't feel right.
[GROANING]
Zuko!
SOKKA: Now that's an impressive door.
It's gotta go somewhere.
[SCREAMING] Yah!
[GRUNTING]
A little warning, next time?
We need to talk to you.
They're here to overthrow you.
No, we're on your side.
We're here to help.
You have to trust us.
You invade my palace, lay waste to all my guards, break down my fancy door, and you expect me to trust you?
He has a good point.
KING: If you're on my side, then drop your weapons and stand down.
See, we're friends, Your Earthiness.
[LAUGHING NERVOUSLY]
[GRUNTING]
LONG FENG: Detain the assailants.
But we dropped our weapons.
We're your allies!
Make sure the Avatar and his friends never see daylight again.
The Avatar?
You're the Avatar?
Uh, no, him.
Over here.
LONG FENG: What does it matter, Your Highness?
They're enemies of the state.
Perhaps you're right.
[RUMBLING]
[SNIFFING]
[LAUGHING]
Though Bosco seems to like him.
I'll hear what he has to say.
AANG: Well, sir, there's a war going on right now.
For the past 100 years, in fact.
The Dai Li's kept it secret from you.
It's a conspiracy to control the city and to control you.
A secret war?
That's crazy!
Completely.
Long Feng didn't want us to tell you, so he stole our sky bison to blackmail us.
And blackmail is the least of his crimes.
He brainwashed our friend!
All lies.
I've never even seen a sky bison, Your Majesty.
Frankly, I thought they were extinct.
Your claim is difficult to believe.
Even from an Avatar.
[WHISPERING] These hooligans are part of an anarchist cell that my legions have been tracking for weeks.
If you listen to them, you're playing right into your own destruction.
I have to trust my adviser.
Wait, I can prove he's lying!
Long Feng said he's never seen a sky bison.
Ask him to lift his robe.
What?
I am not disrobing.
AANG: Right there, Appa bit him!
Never met a sky bison, huh?
That happens to be a large birthmark.
Thanks for showing everyone.
Well, I suppose there's no way to prove where those marks came from.
Of course there is.
[RUMBLING]
Yep, that pretty much proves it.
[CHEERING]
But it doesn't prove this crazy conspiracy theory.
[GROANING]
Though, I suppose this matter is worth looking into.
KIDS: Uh, O.K., We'll take it, uh, yeah, all right.
[MOANING]
You're burning up.
You have an intense fever.
This will help cool you down.
So thirsty.
Here's some clean water to drink.
Stay under the blankets and sweat this out.
[COUGHING]
So this is what a train is like.
I didn't realize it would be this... Public.
So you've never been outside the upper ring before?
I've never been outside the palace.
Now that's the way to travel.
So, may I ask where we're going?
Underneath Lake Laogai, Your Kingliness.
To the Dai Li secret headquarters.
You're about to see where all the brainwashing and conspiring took place.
TOPH: It's gone!
Oh, don't tell me...
That's O.K., Still got my positive attitude.
The Dai Li must have known we were coming and destroyed the evidence.
Hmm, that seems awfully convenient.
Hey, if anything, this proves the conspiracy exists even more.
Long Feng was right, this was a waste of time.
If you'll excuse me, I'm going back to the palace.
The wall!
They'll never be able to cover that up in time.
Oh, yeah.
If you come with us to the outer wall, we can prove to you that the secret war is real.
No Earth King has ever been to the outer wall.
I don't have any more time for this nonsense.
If you come with us, this time you can ride on Appa.
[RUMBLING]
[SCREAMING]
First time flying?
It's both thrilling and terrifying.
Yeah, I hate it, too.
I have to be honest with you.
Part of me really hopes that what you're telling me about this war...
Isn't true.
I wish it wasn't.
[GROANING]
[FAINT CHANTING]
GIRL: It's getting late.
Are you planning to retire soon, My Lord?
I'm not tired.
GIRL: Relax, Fire Lord Zuko.
Just let go.
Give in to it.
Shut your eyes for a while.
UNCLE: No, Fire Lord Zuko!
Do not listen to the blue dragon.
You should get out of here right now.
Go!
Before it's too late!
GIRL: Sleep now, Fire Lord Zuko.
GIRL: Sleep.
Just like mother!
Zuko, help me!
[SCREAMING]
It's still there!
What is that?
It's a drill.
A giant drill, made by the Fire Nation, to break through your walls.
I can't believe I never knew.
I can explain this, Your Majesty.
This is nothing more than...
A construction project.
Really?
Then perhaps you could explain why there's a Fire Nation insignia on your construction project.
Well, it's imported, of course.
You know you can't trust domestic machinery.
Surely you don't believe these children instead of your most loyal attendant?
Dai Li, arrest Long Feng.
I want him to stand trial for crimes against the Earth Kingdom.
You can't arrest me.
You all need me more than you know!
Looks like Long Feng is long gone!
Ha...
Oh, yeah, I've been waitin' to use that one.
KING: I want to thank you, young heroes, for opening my eyes.
All this time, what I thought was a great metropolis was merely a city of fools.
And that makes me the king fool.
[RUMBLING]
We're at war with the Fire Nation.
SOKKA: That's why we came to Ba Sing Se, Your Highness.
Because we think you could help us end the war.
AANG: We don't have much time.
There's a comet coming this summer.
Its energy will give the firebenders unbelievable strength.
They'll be unstoppable.
But there is hope.
Before the comet comes, we have a window of opportunity.
A solar eclipse is coming.
The sun will be entirely blocked out by the moon, and the firebenders will be helpless.
What are you suggesting, Sokka?
That's the day we need to invade the Fire Nation.
The day of black sun.
I don't know.
That would require moving troops out of Ba Sing Se.
We'd be completely vulnerable.
You're already vulnerable.
The Fire Nation won't stop until Ba Sing Se falls.
You can either sit back and wait for that to happen, or take the offensive and give yourself a fighting chance.
Very well.
You have my support.
[CHEERING]
MAN: Your Majesty.
I apologize for the interruption.
KING: This is General How.
He's the leader of the Council of Five, my highest-ranking generals.
We searched Long Feng's office.
I think we found something that will interest everybody.
There are secret files on everyone in Ba Sing Se.
Including you kids.
Secret files?
KING: Toph Beifong.
It's a letter from your mom.
Your mom's here in the city.
And she wants to see you.
Long Feng intercepted our letters from home?
That's just sad.
KING: Aang.
This scroll was attached to the horn of your bison when the Dai Li captured it.
It's from the Eastern Air Temple.
Is there a letter for me and Sokka, by any chance?
I'm afraid not.
Oh.
But there is an intelligence report that might interest you.
A small fleet of water tribe ships?
What?
That could be Dad!
Protecting the mouth of Chameleon Bay?
Led by Hakoda, it is Dad!
UNCLE: You should know this is not a natural sickness.
But that shouldn't stop you from enjoying tea.
What, what's happening?
Your critical decision, what you did beneath that lake, it was in such conflict with your image of yourself that you are now at war within your own mind and body.
What's that mean?
[COUGHING]
You're going through a metamorphosis, my nephew.
It will not be a pleasant experience.
But when you come out of it, you will be the beautiful prince you were always meant to be.
AANG: I can't believe it.
There's a man living at the Eastern Air Temple.
He says he's a guru.
What's a guru? Some kind of poisonous blowfish?
No, a spiritual expert.
He wants to help me take the next step in the Avatar journey.
He says he can teach me to control the Avatar state.
And I can't believe we know where our dad is now.
I know what you mean.
My mom's in the city, and from her letter, it sounds like she finally understands me.
This is all such big news.
Where do we even start?
I hate to say it, but...
We have to split up.
Split up?
We just found Appa and got the family back together.
Now you want us to separate?
You have to meet this guru, Aang.
If we're gonna invade the Fire Nation, you need to be ready.
Well, if I'm going to the Eastern Air Temple, Appa and I can drop you off at Chameleon Bay to see your dad.
Someone has to stay here with the Earth King and help him plan for the invasion.
I guess that's me.
No, Sokka, I know how badly you want to help Dad.
You go to Chameleon Bay, I'll stay here with the king.
You are the...
Nicest... Sister... Ever!
[KISSING]
Easy there, big brother.
Though you're right, I am.
AANG: Katara, I need to tell you something.
I've been wanting to say it for a long time.
What is it, Aang?
Katara, I...
All right!
Who's ready to get going on a little men-only, man trip?
Aang and Sokka, I wish you a good journey.
Ba Sing Se owes you its thanks.
And we look forward to your safe return.
GUARD: Your Majesty, there are three female warriors here to see you.
They're from the island of Kyoshi.
That's Suki!
[SCREAMING]
You know these warriors?
Oh, yeah.
The Kyoshi Warriors are a skilled group of fighters.
Trustworthy, too.
They're good friends of ours.
Then we shall welcome them as honored guests.
KATARA: Wait, Aang.
[KISSING]
TOPH: I'm really gonna miss you guys.
KATARA: Me, too. AANG: Yeah.
[SCREAMING]
Great, that's enough.
O.K., We love each other.
Seriously.
[RUMBLING]
[SCREAMING]
[GASPING]
SOKKA: You see, Aang?
A little positive thinking works wonders.
We got the king on our side, we got Long Feng arrested, and when we get back, Suki's waiting for me.
Yeah.
Girls are waiting for us.
Thanks, positive attitude.
Everything is gonna work out perfectly.
From now on and forever.
MAN: Dinner.
The Council of Five and the military are loyal to the Earth King.
But the Dai Li remains loyal to you, Long Feng, sir.
[SIGHING]
Hello, Mom?
Anyone home?
[SCREAMING]
Hey!
Who do you think you're dealing with?
One loudmouthed little brat who strayed too far from home.
KING: In our hour of need, it is with the highest honor that I welcome our esteemed allies, the Kyoshi Warriors.
We are the Earth King's humble servants.