KATARA: Water.
Earth.
Fire.
Air.
Long ago, the four nations lived together in harmony.
Then everything changed when the Fire Nation attacked.
Only the Avatar, master of all four elements, could stop them.
But when the world needed him most, he vanished.
A hundred years passed, and my brother and I discovered the new Avatar, an airbender named Aang.
And although his airbending skills are great, he has a lot to learn before he's ready to save anyone.
AANG: Oof.
But I believe Aang can save the world.
ROKU: Previously on Avatar...
KATARA: Appa is missing.
We hope to find him in Ba Sing Se.
Professor Zei, head of anthropology at Ba Sing Se University.
This library is said to contain a vast collection of knowledge.
SOKKA: Firebenders lose their bending during a solar eclipse!
We've gotta get this information to the Earth King at Ba Sing Se.
Hey!
What are you doing firebending your tea?
So the old guy had some hot tea, big deal.
He heated it himself.
Those guys are firebenders.
Look, the inner wall.
I can't believe we finally made it to Ba Sing Se in one piece.
Hey, don't jinx it!
We could still be attacked by some giant, exploding Fire Nation spoon.
Or find out the city's been submerged in an ocean full of killer shrimp.
You been hitting the cactus juice again?
I'm just sayin'.
Weird stuff happens to us.
[SUCKING]
Don't worry, Aang, we'll find Appa.
It's such a big city.
He's a giant bison.
Where could someone possibly hide him?
Oh.
TOPH: Ah, back in the city.
Great.
SOKKA: What's the problem? It's amazing!
Just a bunch of walls and rules.
You wait, you'll get sick of it in a couple of days.
AANG: I'm comin' for you, buddy.
He's here, I can feel it.
Hello, my name is Joo Dee.
I have been given the great honor of showing the Avatar around Ba Sing Se.
And you must be Sokka, Katara and Toph.
Welcome to our wonderful city.
Shall we get started?
Yes, we have information about the Fire Nation army that we need to deliver to the Earth King immediately.
Great, let's begin our tour.
And then I'll show you to your new home, here.
I think you'll like it.
Augh!
Maybe you missed what I said.
We need to talk to the king about the war, it's important.
You're in Ba Sing Se, now.
Everyone is safe here.
This is the lower ring.
What's that wall for?
Oh, Ba Sing Se has many walls.
There are the ones outside, protecting us, and the ones inside, that help maintain order.
This is where our newest arrivals live, as well as our craftsmen and artisans, people that work with their hands.
It's so quaint and lively.
You do want to watch your step, though.
Why do they have all these poor people blocked off in one part of the city?
This is why I never came here before.
I always heard it was so different from the way the monks taught us to live.
I just want our new place to look nice in case someone brings home a lady friend.
This city is a prison.
I don't want to make a life here.
IROH: Life happens wherever you are, whether you make it or not.
Now come on, I found us some new jobs and we start this afternoon.
Look at them, firebenders living right under everyone's nose.
SMELLERBEE: Jet, you saw a man with a hot cup of tea.
It doesn't prove he's a firebender.
And what if he is, are we supposed to attack them?
I thought we were starting over here, changing our ways.
We are. When I get the evidence I need, I'll report them to the police and let them handle it, okay?
JOO DEE: This is the middle ring of Ba Sing Se, Home to the financial district, shops and restaurants and the University.
Yeah, we met a professor from Ba Sing Se University.
He took us to an ancient underground library where we discovered information about the war that is absolutely crucial for the king to hear!
Isn't history fascinating?
Look, here's one of the oldest buildings in the middle ring, town hall.
Is that woman deaf?
She only seems to hear every other word I say.
It's called being handled.
Get used to it.
Well, you certainly look like official tea servers.
How do you feel?
Ridiculous.
Uh, does this possibly come in a larger size?
I have extra string in the back.
Have some tea while you wait.
Eow!
This tea is nothing more than hot leaf juice!
Uncle, that's what all tea is.
How could a member of my own family say something so horrible?
We'll have to make some major changes around here.
[GASPING]
JOO DEE: The upper ring is home to our most important citizens.
Your house is not too far from here.
What's inside that wall?
And who are the mean-looking guys in robes?
Inside is the royal palace.
Those men are agents of the Dai Li, the cultural authority of Ba Sing Se.
They are the guardians of all our traditions.
Can we see the king now?
[LAUGHING] Oh, no!
One doesn't just pop in on the Earth King.
Here we are, your new home.
More good news.
Your request for an audience with the Earth King is being processed, and should be put through in about a month.
Much more quickly than usual.
A month?
Six to eight weeks, actually.
Isn't it nice?
I think you'll really enjoy it here.
I think we'd enjoy it more if we weren't staying so long.
Can't we see the king any sooner?
The Earth King is very busy running the finest city in the world, but he will see you as soon as time permits.
If we're gonna be here for a month, we should spend our time looking for Appa.
I'll be happy to escort you anywhere you'd like to go.
We don't need a babysitter.
Oh, I won't get in the way.
And to leave you alone would make me a bad host.
Where shall we start?
[CHIRPING]
[SCREECHING]
I'm sorry, but I haven't heard anything about a flying bison.
I didn't even know there were any.
If someone wanted to sell a stolen animal without anyone knowing, where would they go?
Where's the black market?
Who runs it? Come on, you know.
Uh...
That would be illegal.
You'll have to leave now.
Your lemur is harassing my sparrowkeets.
STUDENT: Hmm, I've never seen any sandbenders or nomads around here.
You should ask Professor Zei, he teaches the class on desert cultures.
Right.
And which of your professors could we ask about the war with the Fire Nation?
I don't know, I'm not a political science student, I have to get to class.
Unh!
JOO DEE: Well, I'm sorry no one has seen your bison.
Why don't you go get some rest?
Someone will be over with dinner later.
Hey, come with me.
You're the Avatar.
I heard you were in town.
I'm Pong.
Nice to meet you, Pong.
So, Pong, what's goin' on with this city?
Why is everyone here so scared to talk about the war?
War, scared?
What do you mean?
I can feel you shaking.
Look, I'm just a minor government official.
I've waited three years to get this house.
I don't want to get into trouble.
Get in trouble with who?
Shh, listen, you can't mention the war, here.
And whatever you do, stay away from the Dai Li.
IROH: Would you like a pot of tea?
ZUKO: We've been working in a tea shop all day.
I'm sick of tea.
Sick of tea?
That's like being sick of breathing.
Have you seen our spark rocks to heat up the water?
They're not there.
You'll have to firebend, old man.
JET: Where are you going?
IROH: I borrowed our neighbor's.
Such kind people.
[CHIRPING]
[YAWNING]
[GASPING]
I've got it!
I know how we're gonna see the Earth King.
How're we supposed to do that?
"One doesn't just pop in on the Earth King."
The king is having a party at the palace tonight for his pet bear.
You mean platypus-bear?
No, it just says "bear."
Certainly you mean his pet skunk-bear.
Or his armadillo-bear.
Gopher-bear?
Just "bear."
This place is weird.
The palace will be packed.
We can sneak in with a crowd.
-Won't work. -Why not?
Well, no offense to you simple country folk, but a real society crowd would spot you a mile away.
You've got no manners.
Excuse me?
I've got no manners?
You're not exactly Lady Fancy Fingers.
[TOPH BURPS]
I learned proper society behavior and chose to leave it.
You never learned anything.
And frankly, it's a little too late.
Ah-ha, but you learned it!
You could teach us.
Yeah, I'm mastering every element.
How hard can manners be?
"Good evening, Mr. Sokka Water Tribe."
"Miss Katara Water Tribe."
"Lord Momo of the Momo dynasty, your Momo-ness."
"Avatar Aang, how you do go on."
AANG: Ow!
Katara might be able to pull it off, but you two would be lucky to pass as busboys.
But I feel so fancy.
AANG: Earth! SOKKA: Fire!
Augh.
Ooh.
[GIGGLING]
Wow, you look beautiful.
Don't talk to the commoners, Katara.
First rule of society.
We'll get in the party and then find a way to let you in through the side gate.
[GONG RINGING]
SMELLERBEE: Jet, we need to talk.
What? Oh, great, it's you guys.
Where have you been? I could use some help with surveillance here.
We've been talking, and we think you're becoming obsessed with this.
It's not healthy.
Oh, really?
You both think this?
We came here to make a fresh start.
But you won't let this go.
Even though there's no real proof!
Well, maybe if you'd help me.
Jet, you've gotta stop this.
Maybe you've forgotten why we need to start over.
Maybe you've forgotten about how the Fire Nation left us all homeless?
How they wiped out all the people we loved?
If you don't wanna help me, I'll get the evidence on my own.
This is the best tea in the city.
The secret ingredient is love.
I think you're due for a raise.
I'm tired of waiting.
These two men are firebenders!
I know they're firebenders!
I saw the old man heating his tea.
He works in a tea shop.
He's a firebender, I'm telling you!
Drop your swords, boy, nice and easy.
You'll have to defend yourself.
Then everyone will know.
Go ahead, show them what you can do.
You want a show?
I'll give you a show.
MAN: Invitation, please.
I think this will do.
No entry without an invitation.
Step out of line, please.
Look, the Pangs and the Yumsoon-Hans are waiting in there for us.
I'm gonna have to tell them who didn't let me in.
Step out of line, please.
KATARA: Sir?
I'm sorry to bother you, but my cousin lost our invitations.
[WHISPERING] She's blind.
Do you think you could help us?
Our family's inside, and I'm sure they're very worried.
I am honored.
Please come with me.
Nyaa. [BLOWING RASPBERRY]
He's taking all the good stuff.
Quiet, you don't know what I had to do to get seats this near the bear.
It's beautiful, isn't it?
By the way, I'm Long Feng.
I'm a cultural minister to the king.
I'm Hwamei, and this is Dung.
Ow!
Now where is your family?
I'd love to meet them.
Uh, I don't see 'em right now, but I'm sure we'll find them soon.
Thanks for all your help.
Don't worry, as your escort, it would be dishonorable to abandon you ladies without finding your family, first.
We'll keep looking.
Where are they?
Look, I came up with a back-up plan.
We dress Momo like a ghost, okay?
He flies by the guards, creating a distraction.
Then we blast a hole in the wall...
Or we can go in with these guys.
AANG: Toph said we might pass as busboys.
Okay, but remember that Momo ghost plan.
I think it's a winner.
Ugh!
[GRUNTING]
You must be getting tired of using those swords.
Why don't you go ahead and firebend at me?
Please, son, you're confused!
You don't know what you're doing!
JET: Bet you wish he helped you out with a little fire blast right now.
You're the one who needs help.
You see that? The Fire Nation is trying to silence me!
It'll never happen.
[GRUNTING]
Where are Toph and Katara?
Forget about them, just keep an eye out for the king.
I don't know what he looks like.
You know, royal, flowing robe, fancy jewelry.
AANG: That could be anyone.
Another crab puff, please.
You found us!
I'd know your little footsteps anywhere, twinkle toes.
Thanks for letting us in.
Sorry, but the guy who escorted us in won't let us out of his sight.
What guy?
What are you doing here?
You have to leave immediately, or we'll all be in terrible trouble.
Not until we see the king.
You don't understand. You must go.
[WOMAN SCREAMING]
Oh!
AANG: Sorry, no, don't shout.
The Avatar.
Oh, I didn't know the Avatar would be here.
[LAUGHING WEAKLY]
You keep their attention while I look for the king.
Watch this, everybody.
CROWD: Ooh...
[APPLAUSE]
[LAUGHING, GROWLING]
[GRUNTING]
Drop your weapons.
Arrest them, they're firebenders.
This poor boy is confused.
We're just simple refugees.
This young man wrecked my tea shop and assaulted my employees!
It's true, sir. We saw the whole thing.
This crazy kid attacked the finest tea maker in the city.
Oh, that's very sweet.
Come with us, son.
[GRUNTING]
You don't understand!
They're Fire Nation!
You have to believe me.
Aang, the Earth King.
Greetings, your majesty.
[GASPING]
Augh, ugh, let me go!
[MUFFLED SHOUT]
[MUFFLED SHOUT]
[CHIRPING]
Avatar, it is a great honor to meet you.
I am Long Feng, grand secretary of Ba Sing Se and head of the Dai Li.
I'd like to talk to you.
Your friends will be waiting for us in the library.
SOKKA: Why won't you let us talk to the king?
We have information that could defeat the Fire Nation!
LONG FENG: The Earth King has no time to get involved with political squabbles and the day-to-day minutia of military activities.
AANG: This could be the most important thing he's ever heard.
What's most important to his royal majesty is maintaining the cultural heritage of Ba Sing Se.
All his duties relate to issuing decrees on such matters.
It's my job to oversee the rest of the city's resources, including the military.
So the king is just a figurehead.
He's your puppet.
Oh, no, no.
His majesty is an icon, a god to his people.
He can't sully his hands with the hourly changes of an endless war.
But we found out about a solar eclipse that will leave the Fire Nation defenseless.
You could lead an invasion...
Enough, I don't want to hear your ridiculous plan.
It is the strict policy of Ba Sing Se that the war not be mentioned within the walls.
Constant news of an escalating war will throw the citizens of Ba Sing Se into a state of panic.
You have to believe me, they're firebenders.
They won't stop until they win the war.
Calm down, you're safe now.
Our economy would be ruined, our peaceful way of life, our traditions would disappear.
There's no war in Ba Sing Se.
What are you talking about?
Where do you think all the refugees come from? You can't hide it.
In silencing talk of conflict, Ba Sing Se remains a peaceful, orderly utopia.
The last one on Earth.
[MUFFLED GRUNTING]
There is no war within the walls.
Here we are safe.
Here we are free.
You can't keep the truth from all these people.
They have to know.
I'll tell them.
I'll make sure everyone knows.
Until now, you've been treated as our honored guest.
But from now on, you will be watched every moment by Dai Li agents.
If you mention the war to anyone, you will be expelled from the city.
I understand you've been looking for your bison.
It would be quite a shame if you were not able to complete your quest.
Now Joo Dee will show you home.
WOMAN: Come with me, please.
What happened to Joo Dee?
I'm Joo Dee.
I'll be your host as long as you're in our wonderful city.