KATARA: Water...
Earth...
Fire...
Air.
Long ago, the four nations lived together in harmony.
Then everything changed when the Fire Nation attacked.
Only the Avatar, master of all four elements, could stop them.
But when the world needed him most, he vanished.
100 years passed, and my brother and I discovered the new Avatar...
An airbender named Aang.
And although his airbending skills are great, he has a lot to learn before he's ready to save anyone.
AANG: Oof.
But I believe Aang can save the world.
ZHAO: I discovered a hidden library.
I tore through scroll after scroll.
TOPH: You did it!
You're an earthbender.
ROKU: Sozin's Comet will return by the end of the summer.
And Fire Lord Ozai will use its power to finish the war once and for all.
You must defeat the Fire Lord before the comet arrives.
SOKKA: What's out here?
TOPH: A lot, actually. There's hundreds of little...
Shh! I know you can see underground, but don't ruin the surprise.
Just watch.
♪♪ ♪♪
♪ Eh ♪ Ha ha! Yeah!
♪♪ ♪♪
♪ Eh! ♪ I'm putting an orchestra together.
Orchestra, huh? Well...
♪ La-di-da ♪
-♪ Laah ♪ -♪ Diih ♪
♪ Daah ♪
♪♪ ♪♪
♪ Eh ♪
♪ Eh! ♪
♪ Eh! ♪
♪ Eh ♪ This is great and all, But don't we have more important things to worry about?
We should be making plans.
We did make plans.
We're all picking mini-vacations.
There's no time for vacations.
I'm learning the elements as fast as I can.
I practice hard every day with Toph and Katara.
I've been training my arrow off.
Yeah. What's wrong with having a little fun in our downtime?
Even if you do master all of the elements, then what?
It's not like we have a map of the Fire Nation.
Should we just head west until we reach the Fire Lord's house?
Knock, knock! Hello, Fire Lord! Anybody home?
I don't think so.
We need some intelligence if we're gonna win this war.
♪ Laah ♪ Hee hee! All right. We'll finish our vacations.
And then we'll look for Sokka's intelligence.
AANG: Your turn, Katara.
Where would you like to go on your mini-vacation?
How about the Misty Palms Oasis?
That sounds refreshing.
Oh, yeah, I've been there. It's a pristine natural ice spring.
And I don't usually use the word "pristine."
It's one of nature's wonders.
[SOUNDTRACK MUSIC SLOWS DOWN]
Must have changed ownership since I was here.
Heh heh.
Ptooey!
[GROWLING]
[SNORING]
One mango, please.
I don't see anything wrong with having one of those fruity beverages while we plan our strategy.
Excuse me.
No worries. I clean up easy.
You're a living relic.
Thanks. I try.
An Air Nomad right front of me.
Professor Zei, head of anthropology at Ba Sing Se University.
Tell me...
Which of the air temples do you hail from?
The Southern Temple.
Oh, splendid! Now, tell me, what was the primary agricultural product of your people?
Uh, are fruit pies an agricultural product?
Oh! Truly fascinating. That's one for the journal.
SOKKA: So, professor, you're obviously a well-traveled guy.
Do you have a more current map?
Ours seems to be a little dated.
Certainly.
What? No Fire Nation?
Doesn't anybody have a good map of that place?
KATARA: You've made a lot of trips into the desert.
ZEI: All in vain, I'm afraid.
I've found lost civilizations all over the Earth Kingdom, but I haven't managed to find the crown jewel...
Wan Shi Tong's library.
You've spent years walking through the desert to find some guy's library?
This library is more valuable than gold, little lady.
It is said to contain a vast collection of knowledge.
And knowledge...
Is priceless.
[DEADPAN] Hmm. Sounds like good times.
Oh, it is. According to legend, It was built by the great knowledge spirit Wan Shi Tong with the help of his foxy knowledge seekers.
Oh, so this spirit has attractive assistants, huh?
I think he means they look like actual foxes, Sokka.
ZEI: You're both right.
Handsome little creatures.
Wan Shi Tong and his knowledge seekers collected books from all over the world and put them on display for mankind to read so that we might better ourselves.
If this place has books from all over the world, do you think they've got info on the Fire Nation? A map maybe?
I wouldn't know.
But if such a thing exists, it's in Wan Shi Tong's library.
Then it's settled. Aang, I do believe it's my turn.
I'd like to spend my vacation at the library!
Uh, hey, what about me? When do I get to pick?
You've got to work here a little longer before you're qualified for vacation time.
Hmph.
Of course, there's the matter of finding it.
I've made several trips into the Zi Huang desert and almost died each time.
I'm afraid that desert's impossible to cross.
Professor, would you like to see our sky bison?
A sky bison? You actually have one?!
[GROWLING]
Sandbenders, shoo! Away from the bison!
Tell me, sky bison, are you the last of your breed?
Oh, delightful! I only wish I spoke his tongue.
Oh, the stories this beast could tell.
Shush, chatty monkey.
Wow. It shouldn't be too hard to find a place like this out here.
Ah! Does this place even exist?
Some say it doesn't.
Shouldn't you have mentioned that before?
Grr!
There it is!
That's what it will sound like when one of you spots it.
[APPA GROWLING]
It shouldn't be this hard to spot a giant ornate building from the air.
Down there. What's that?
Forget it. It's obviously not what we're looking for.
The building in this drawing is enormous.
What kind of animal is that?
ZEI: I think that was one of the knowledge seekers.
Oh, we must be close to the library.
No. This is the library. Look!
It's completely buried.
ZEI: The library is buried?!
My life's ambition is now full of sand.
Well, time to start excavating.
Actually, that won't be necessary.
The inside seems to be completely intact.
And it's huge.
SOKKA: That fox thingy went in through a window.
I say we climb up there and give it a look.
I say you guys go ahead without me.
You've got something against libraries?
I've held books before.
And I got to tell you, they don't exactly do it for me.
Oh, right. Sorry.
Let me know if they have something you can listen to.
Don't worry, buddy. I'm not making you go underground ever again.
You can stay out here with Toph.
What's up?
[CHATTERS]
ZEI: Oh, it's breathtaking.
The spirit spared no expense in designing this place.
Look at those beautiful buttresses.
-Hee hee! -Hee hee!
ZEI: What's funny?
Nothing. We just like architecture.
As do I.
My word!
The exquisite mosaic handiwork of this tile-rendered avian symbol...
Eh, nice owl.
[RUSTLING]
[CHATTERING]
I know you're back there.
Hello!
I'm Professor Zei, head of anthropology at Ba Sing Se University.
You should leave the way you came Unless you want to become a stuffed head of anthropology.
[SPEAKING GIBBERISH]
Are you the spirit who brought this library to the physical world?
Indeed. I am Wan Shi Tong, he who knows 10,000 things.
And you are obviously humans, Which, by the way, are no longer permitted in my study.
AANG: What do you have against humans?
Hmm. Humans only bother learning things to get the edge on other humans, Like that firebender who came to this place a few years ago, looking to destroy his enemy.
So who are you trying to destroy?
What? No, no, no destroying. We're not into that.
WAN SHI TONG: Then why have you come here?
Um, knowledge for knowledge's sake.
If you're going to lie to an all-knowing spirit being, you should at least put some effort into it.
I'm not lying! I'm here with the Avatar, And he's the bridge between our worlds. He'll vouch for me.
Ow!
Uh, yeah. I'll vouch.
We will not abuse the knowledge in your library, good spirit.
You have my word.
Hmm. Very well. I'll let you peruse my vast collection on one condition...
To prove your worth as scholars, you have to contribute some worthwhile knowledge.
Please accept this tome as a donation to your library.
First edition. Very nice.
I have an authentic waterbending scroll.
Oh, these illustrations are quite stylish.
Uh, oh! I know.
Ha!
I suppose that counts.
Oh, great spirit, check this out.
Ta-da!
It's a special knot.
That counts as knowledge.
You're not very bright, are you?
Enjoy the library.
Bright enough to fool you.
So, do you like flying?
Of course, I'm more comfortable on the ground where I can see.
Well, I don't see the way you do.
I feel the vibrations in the ground with my feet.
But this sand is so loose and shifty, It makes everything look fuzzy.
[GROWLS]
Not that there's anything wrong with fuzzy.
Hey! Look at these weird lion-turtle things.
Ah, I've seen weirder.
Aang, did you know in a past life, you were left-handed?
I always knew I was special.
"The darkest day in Fire Nation history."
It's got a date at the top, but it doesn't say anything else.
Sokka, where are you going?
I want to know what happened to the Fire Nation on their darkest day.
This could be promising.
The information on the Fire Nation should be right up here.
AANG: Firebenders.
KATARA: They destroyed everything having to do with the Fire Nation.
That's so unfair!
Just when I think I'm one step ahead of the Fire Nation, it turns out they beat us here a long time ago.
I need to know what happened on the darkest day.
[WHIMPERING]
Hello, little weird fox guy.
ZEI: It seems it's trying to assist you.
Um, sure. I guess I'll follow you.
This room is a true marvel, a mechanical wonder.
It's a planetarium that shows the heavens moving.
SOKKA: This is beautiful, but how is it helpful?
Maybe these dials represent dates and times.
Sokka, try entering that date from that parchment you took.
Shh! Katara, not in front of the fox. He's with the owl.
[WHIMPERS]
Wow! I got to hand it to you, Sokka, You picked the best mini-vacation for sure.
KATARA: Hey, wait. What happened to the sun?
Great. You must have broken it.
It's not broken.
The sun is behind the moon. It's a solar eclipse.
It's literally the darkest day in Fire Nation history.
Now I get it. Something awful happened on that day.
I don't know what, but I do know why.
Firebenders lose their bending during a solar eclipse.
Sorry.
That makes sense.
I mean, think of what the lunar eclipse at the North Pole did to the waterbenders.
This is huge.
[FOX WHIMPERS]
Fine. You earned it.
We've got to get this information to the Earth King at Ba Sing Se.
We'll wait for the next eclipse.
Then we'll invade the Fire Nation when they're totally helpless.
The Fire Lord is going down!
Mortals are so predictable and such terrible liars.
[SOKKA GULPS]
You betrayed my trust.
From the beginning, you intended to misuse this knowledge for evil purposes.
You don't understand. If anyone's evil, it's the Fire Nation.
You saw what they did to your library.
They're destructive and dangerous.
We need this information.
You think you're the first person to believe their war was justified?
Countless others before you have come here, seeking weapons or weaknesses or battle strategies.
We had no choice. Please. We're just desperate to protect the people we love.
And now I am going to protect what I love.
AANG: What are you doing?
I'm taking my knowledge back. No one will ever abuse it again.
He's sinking the building. We've got to get out of here!
I'm afraid I can't allow that. You already know too much.
-Aah! -Aah!
[KIDS SCREAMING]
[GROWLS]
I already told you. I don't want to snuggle.
Library's sinking. Library's sinking!
Hyah!
[YELLS]
Aah!
Great knowledge spirit, I beg you, do not destroy your vast collection of priceless tomes.
Aah!
We've got to get back to the surface.
Sokka, let's go.
But we still don't know when the next eclipse is gonna happen.
Don't be stupid. We'll find out later.
No, we won't. If we leave this place, we'll never get the information.
Aang, come with me to the planetarium. I need cover.
Katara, take Momo and get out of here.
But...
SOKKA: Go!
Hurry, Sokka!
[BREATHING HEAVILY]
What is it now?
Who is there?
AANG: Why are we doing this?
Because if this calendar can tell us about eclipses in the past, then maybe it can project when the next one will be.
You can't possibly check every single date.
I don't have to. We just need to check every date before Sozin's Comet arrives, because after that, well, try not to think about that.
Come on, eclipse!
SOKKA: That's it... The solar eclipse.
It's just a few months away.
Got it! Now let's get to Ba Sing Se.
Don't make me put this down.
No! Stop sinking!
No!
I'm sorry, Appa.
-[CHATTERING] -[SCREECHING]
At least I'll have one specimen to add to my collection.
Aah!
Your waterbending won't do you much good here.
I've studied northern water style, southern water style, even foggy swamp style.
Hyah!
That's called Sokka style. Learn it.
Wait! Professor, let's go.
I'm not leaving. I can't.
I've spent too long trying to find this place.
There's not another collection of knowledge like this on earth.
I could spend an eternity in here.
Just go!
[WAN SHI TONG SCREECHES]
[KIDS SCREAMING]
We got it. There's a solar eclipse coming.
The Fire Nation's in trouble now.
Where's Appa?