KATARA: Water.
Earth.
Fire.
Air.
Long ago, the four nations lived together in harmony.
Then, everything changed when the Fire Nation attacked.
Only the Avatar, master of all four elements, could stop them.
But when the world needed him most, he vanished.
A hundred years passed, and my brother and I discovered the new Avatar, an Airbender named Aang.
And although his airbending skills are great, he has a lot to learn before he's ready to save anyone.
AANG: Oof!
KATARA: But I believe Aang can save the world.
[ZUKO YAWNING]
What's that smell?
It's jook. I'm sure you wouldn't like it.
[INHALING]
Actually, it smells delicious. I'd love a bowl, Uncle.
Now that your fever is gone, you seem different somehow.
It's a new day.
We've got a new apartment, new furniture, and today's the grand opening of your new tea shop.
Things are looking up, Uncle. [SIPPING]
You haven't seen your Dad in over two years.
You must be so excited.
[RETCHES]
I know I should be, but I just feel sick to my stomach.
Don't be nervous, he's gonna be so happy to see you.
So what about you?
Are you nervous to meet this Guru?
Not at all.
I'm ready to master the Avatar State.
I'll do whatever it takes.
See you in a week.
Yip! Yip!
[SIGHS HEAVILY]
-Sokka, good to see you. -[WARRIORS LAUGHING]
Sokka.
Hi, Dad.
Look, Bosco, the Kyoshi Warriors are here to protect us.
Aren't you excited?
[YAWNING]
It's been a difficult week for me.
My most trusted adviser, Long Feng, and his Dai Li agents tried to take control of Ba Sing Se from me.
It's terrible when you can't trust the people who are closest to you.
But there is good news.
As we speak, the Council of Five is meeting to plan an invasion of The Fire Nation this summer... On the day of a solar eclipse.
Really?
Now that sounds like a fascinating and brilliant plan.
General Fong's base will serve as the launching point for the attack.
In exactly two months, the Army and Navy will invade the Fire Nation on The Day of Black Sun.
Or we could send in Momo to do some damage.
[LAUGHING] 'Cause the...
Sorry.
[SCREECHING]
All we need is the Earth King's seal in order to execute the plan.
I'll get these scrolls to him right away.
Thank you, General How.
[APPA GRUNTING]
Um, hello?
You're Guru Pathik, right?
The person who attached the note to Appa's horn?
Indeed.
I was a spiritual brother of your people, and a personal friend of Monk Gyatso.
In your note, you said you could teach me to gain control of the Avatar State.
How?
You must gain balance within yourself before you can bring balance to the world.
And the first step to gaining balance begins with this.
Drink up.
[SIPPING, SPITTING]
Ugh!
It tastes like onion and banana juice!
That's because it is.
[SLURPING] Yum! Yum!
I believe we need to go right!
What are you talking about?
The Bei Fong Estate's this way.
I'm quite certain you're mistaken.
[LOUD BANGING]
Hey, can you two old ladies quit your bickering for a second?
I gotta go to the bathroom!
Oh... Uh...
Okay, but make it quick.
What's wrong with you?!
Oh, very sneaky, Toph!
Nice try, but you can't trick me.
Let me outta here, so I can kick both your butts!
Quit your banging!
You might think you're the greatest Earthbender in the world, but even you can't bend metal.
We've been presented with an extraordinary opportunity, girls.
Mai finally gets to wear makeup that's not totally depressing?
Ha. Ha.
I'm talking about conquering the whole Earth Kingdom.
For a hundred years the Fire Nation has hammered away at Ba Sing Se from the outside.
But now we are on the inside, and we can take it by ourselves.
Gosh, you're so confident. I really admire that about you.
From the inside, we're in the perfect position to organize a coup and overthrow the Earth King.
The key is the Dai Li.
Whoever controls the Dai Li, controls Ba Sing Se.
In order to master the Avatar State, you must open all the chakras.
Aang, tell me everything you know about chakras.
What are chakras?
Oh, I see.
I guess we'll start with the basics.
The water flows through this creek much like the energy flows through your body.
As you see, there are several pools where the water swirls around before flowing on.
These pools are like our chakras.
So, chakras are pools of spiraling energy in our bodies?
Exactly. If nothing else were around, this creek would flow pure and clear.
However, life is messy, and things tend to fall in the creek, and then what happens?
-The creek can't flow? -Yes.
But if we open the paths between the pools...
The energy flows!
[WATER GURGLING]
There are seven chakras that go up the body.
Each pool of energy has a purpose, and can be blocked by a specific kind of emotional muck.
Be warned... Opening the chakras is an intense experience, and once you begin this process, you cannot stop until all seven are open.
Are you ready?
I'll do whatever it takes.
First we will open the Earth chakra, located at the base of the spine.
It deals with survival and is blocked by fear.
What are you most afraid of?
Let your fears become clear to you.
[SCREAMING]
[SCREAMING]
GURU: Aang, your vision is not real.
You are concerned for your survival, but you must surrender those fears.
Let your fears flow down the creek.
You have opened your Earth chakra.
Whew.
[WATER CASCADING]
-Next is the... -Water chakra?
Brilliant!
Maybe one day you will be a Guru, too.
This chakra deals with pleasure, and is blocked by guilt.
Now, look at all the guilt which burdens you so.
What do you blame yourself for?
AANG: I ran away.
I hurt all of those people.
Accept the reality that these things happened, but do not let them cloud and poison your energy.
If you are to be a positive influence on the world, you need to forgive yourself.
CHIEF HAKODA: This bay leads directly to the outskirts of Ba Sing Se.
We've been using these tangle mines to stop the Fire Nation ships from getting through.
Your father invented tangle mines, himself.
Destructive, buoyant, and...
[SNIFFING]
[GASPS]
...terrible smelling!
Very perceptive.
The mines are filled with skunk-fish and seaweed.
When a ship detonates the mine, the seaweed tangles up the propeller, and the foul smell forces people to abandon the ship.
I call it the stink n' sink.
[LAUGHING] Good one, Dad!
You are definitely your father's son.
Hakoda, our scouts have spotted four Fire Nation ships.
Bato, get these mines loaded up.
The rest of you men, prepare for battle.
Um, what should I do, Dad?
Aren't you listening?
I said the rest of you men get ready for battle.
Who thought when we came to this city as refugees, that I'd end up owning my own tea shop.
Follow your passion, Zuko, and life will reward you.
Congratulations, Uncle.
I'm very thankful.
You deserve it.
The Jasmine Dragon will be the best tea shop in the city.
No, I'm thankful because you decided to share this special day with me.
It means more than you know.
Now let's make these people some tea.
Yes, let's make some tea!
Third is the Fire chakra, located in the stomach.
My Fire chakra would like to eat something other than onion-banana juice.
[CHUCKLING]
Good one. Moving on.
This chakra deals with will power and is blocked by shame.
What are you ashamed of?
What are your biggest disappointments in yourself?
I'm never gonna firebend again.
I can't.
You will never find balance, if you deny this part of your life.
You are the Avatar, and therefore, you are a Firebender.
[INHALES, EXHALES]
Hmm, that chakra opened less like a flowing creek, and more like a...
Burping bison.
[BELCHES]
Tastes like onions and bananas, but, strangely, something else.
Pickles?
[SHRUGS]
I'm tired of wearing this girly disguise.
I don't know how anyone can fight in this.
Maybe that's why it was so easy to beat the Kyoshi Warriors and take their clothes.
How much longer do we have to serve the Earth King?
If I have to clean up one more pile of bear poop, I'm gonna throw up.
Princess Azula promised we would go back to the Fire Nation as soon as we captured the Avatar.
-We just have to be patient. -Shush up!
Do you want the whole palace to know we're Fire Nation?
Sorry.
Good work, girls.
I am sure the Dai Li will deliver the message.
The fourth chakra is located in the heart.
It deals with love, and is blocked by grief.
Lay all your grief out in front of you.
GURU: You have, indeed, felt a great loss.
But love is a form of energy, and it swirls all around us.
The Air Nomads' love for you has not left this world.
It is still inside of your heart, and is reborn in the form of new love.
Let the pain flow away.
Very good.
Can I have some onion-banana juice please?
The fifth in the chain is the Sound chakra, located in the throat.
It deals with truth, and is blocked by lies...
The ones we tell ourselves.
Why didn't you tell us you were the Avatar?
Because I never wanted to be.
You cannot lie about your own nature.
You must accept that you are the Avatar.
[INHALING, EXHALING]
Very good, Aang.
You have opened the chakra of Truth.
The sixth pool of energy is the Light chakra, located in the center of the forehead.
It deals with insight and is blocked by illusion.
The greatest illusion of this world is the illusion of separation.
Things you think are separate and different are actually one and the same.
AANG: Like the four nations.
GURU: Yes, we are all one people, but we live as if divided.
We're all connected.
Everything is connected.
That's right.
Even the separation of the four elements is an illusion.
If you open your mind, you will see that all the elements are one...
Four parts of the same whole.
Even metal is just a part of Earth that has been purified and refined.
[INHALES, EXHALES]
[STRAINING] Come on metal... Budge.
[METAL THUDS]
Woo! Toph, you rule!
What do you say, Momo?
A cup of tea before we get back to the king?
[CHATTERING]
Table for two, please.
Uncle, I need two jasmine, one green and one lychee.
I'm brewing as fast as I can.
AANG: This is the last chakra, isn't it?
GURU: Yes.
Once you open this chakra, you will be able go in and out of the Avatar State at will.
And when you are in the Avatar State, you will have complete control and awareness of all your actions.
Let's do this.
The Thought chakra is located at the crown of the head.
It deals with pure cosmic energy and is blocked by earthly attachment.
Meditate on what attaches you to this world.
Now, let all of those attachments go.
Let them flow down the river...
Forgotten.
What? Why would I let go of Katara?
I... I love her.
Learn to let her go, or you cannot let the pure cosmic energy flow in from the universe.
Why would I choose cosmic energy over Katara?
How could it be a bad thing that I feel an attachment to her?
Three chakras ago, that was a good thing.
You must learn to let go.
[PANTING]
Thank goodness you're here, Suki.
Something terrible is going on.
The Fire Nation has infiltrated the city.
I just saw Prince Zuko and his uncle!
We have to tell the Earth King right away!
Oh, don't worry. I'll be sure to let him know.
[SCREECHES]
[GASPS]
[GRUNTS]
AZULA: So, Zu Zu's in the city, too.
I think it's time for a family reunion.
[CHATTERING]
I'm sorry, but I can't let go of Katara.
Aang, to master the Avatar State, you must open all the chakras.
Surrender yourself.
Okay, I'll try.
GURU: Now, think of your attachments and let them go.
Let the pure cosmic energy flow.
[KATARA SCREAMING]
Let me go! [STRAINING]
[PANTING]
[SCREAMING]
Katara is in danger! I have to go!
No, Aang!
By choosing attachment, you have locked the chakra!
If you leave now, you won't be able to go into the Avatar State at all!
[METAL CLANGS]
It's another one of her tricks.
There's a giant hole in the box.
How is that a trick?
It's not! It's the real deal!
I am the greatest Earthbender in the world!
Don't you two dunderheads ever forget!
I'm going to be stuck in here forever with you, aren't I?
I have to go to the bathroom.
[METAL CLANGS]
Ready to go knock some Fire Nation heads?
You don't know how much this means to me, Dad.
I'll make you proud, and I'll finally prove to you what a great warrior I am.
Sokka, you don't have to prove anything to me.
I'm already proud of you, and I've always known you were a great warrior.
Really?
Why do you think I trusted you to look after our tribe when I left?
This can't be good news.
What is this about?
Your agents show up in the middle of the night and drag me down here?
You will not treat a Kyoshi Warrior this way!
But you are not a Kyoshi Warrior, are you, Princess Azula of the Fire Nation?
-What do you want? -I want to make a deal.
It's time that I regain control of Ba Sing Se, and you have something I need.
-Oh? -The Earth King's trust.
Why should I help you?
Because I can get you the Avatar.
I'm listening.
A message from the royal palace.
I... I can't believe it.
-What is it, Uncle? -Great news!
We've been invited to serve tea to the Earth King!
[METAL DOOR SLAMS]
[LAPPING WATER]
-[APPA GRUNTING] -[SQUAWKING]
So, what kind of trouble is Katara in?
I don't know.
In my vision, I just knew she needed help.
It would be nice if your Avatar powers could be just a little more specific from time to time.
-[LOUD RUMBLING] -What is that?
Need a ride?
[GASPING]
BOTH: Ohhhh...
The Earth King and The Council of Five do not trust the Dai Li.
They imprisoned your leader, Long Feng.
Soon they will turn on all of you and eliminate you.
Seizing power today is a matter of life and death.
This coup must be swift and decisive.
The Earth King, and each of the five generals, must be taken out, simultaneously.
Long Feng has placed you in my command while we overthrow the government.
If I sense any disloyalty, any hesitation, any weakness at all, I will snuff it out.
That is all.
Nice speech, Azula.
It was pretty and poetic, but also scary in a good way.
Yeah, I thought you were gonna make that one guy pee his pants.
There are still a few loose ends...
The Avatar, and my brother and uncle.
Many times, I imagined myself here...
At the threshold of the palace.
But I always thought I would be here as a conqueror.
Instead, we are the Earth King's personal guests, here to serve him tea.
Destiny is a funny thing.
It sure is, Uncle.
TOPH: So, how did it go with the Guru?
Did you master the Avatar State?
Uh...
If you leave now, you won't be able to go into the Avatar State at all!
SOKKA: Aang, are you okay?
I'm great.
It went great with the Guru.
I completely mastered the Avatar State.
[NERVOUS LAUGHTER]
Yeah.
What's taking so long?
Maybe the Earth King overslept.
Something's not right.
AZULA: It's tea time.
Azula!
Have you met the Dai Li?
They're Earthbenders, but they have a killer instinct that's so Firebender.
I just love it.
Did I ever tell you how I got the nickname the "Dragon of the West"?
I'm not interested in a lengthy anecdote, Uncle.
It's more of a demonstration, really.
[SIPPING TEA]
[EXPLOSION]
[SCREAMING]
[GRUNTS]
Come on!
You'll be fine!
No. I'm tired of running.
It's time I faced Azula.
AZULA: You're so dramatic.
What? Are you going to challenge me to an Agni Kai?
Yes! I challenge you!
No, thanks.
[ROAR OF EFFORT]
Oh!
[STRAINING]
[APPA GROWLING]
Katara's fine.
You have nothing to worry about.
But, in my vision...
I felt so sure that she was in trouble.
Well, she met with the Council of Generals to plan the invasion.
And since then she's been off with your friends, the Kyoshi Warriors.
See Aang? She's with Suki.
They're probably back at our apartment right now, talking about makeup or something.
Okay, maybe you're right.
Believe me, if there was any danger at all, Bosco's animal instincts would sense it.
[SLEEPY GROWLING]
[LOUD RUMBLING]
You've got company.
[GASPING, GRUNTING]
Zuko!
[LOUD RUMBLING]
-Momo! -[CHATTERING]
There's no one else here.
Katara is in trouble. I knew it.
Oh, no.
Wait, someone's at the door.
[KNOCKING AT DOOR]
Actually, I know who it is.
It's an old friend of mine.
Glad to see you're okay.
I need your help.
[AANG AND SOKKA GASP]
[CHATTERING]
You guys know each other?
I met him in the woods once and knocked him down.
Then he gave me tea and some very good advice.
May I come in?
Princess Azula is here in Ba Sing Se.
She must have Katara.
She has captured my nephew, as well.
Then we'll work together to fight Azula, and save Katara and Zuko.
Whoa, there. You lost me at, "Zuko".
I know how you must feel about my nephew.
But believe me when I tell you there is good inside him.
Good inside him isn't enough.
Why don't you come back when it's outside him, too, okay?
Katara's in trouble.
All of Ba Sing Se is in trouble.
Working together is our best chance.
Mmm...
I brought someone along who might be able to help us.
[MUFFLED GASPING]
Azula and Long Feng are plotting a coup.
They're going to overthrow the Earth King.
My sister!
Where are they keeping Katara?
In the crystal catacombs of old Ba Sing Se, deep beneath the palace.
The movements of all the generals and the Earth King have been plotted out step-by-step.
Good.
And the Fire Nation Princess is cooperating?
Oh, yes, more than cooperating...
She's really taken charge.
She's terrifying and inspirational at the same time.
It's hard to explain.
Why did they throw you in here?
Oh, wait. Let me guess... It's a trap, so that when Aang shows up to help me, you can finally have him in your little Fire Nation clutches.
You're a terrible person, you know that?
Always following us, hunting the Avatar, trying to capture the world's last hope for peace!
But what do you care?
You're the Fire Lord's son.
Spreading war and violence and hatred is in your blood.
-You don't know what you're talking about. -I don't?
How dare you!
You have no idea what this war has put me through.
Me, personally.
The Fire Nation took my mother away from me.
I'm sorry.
[SOBBING]
That's something we have in common.
Well, what do ya know?
There is an ancient city down there, but it's deep.
[LOUD RUMBLING]
We should split up.
Aang, you go with Iroh to look for Katara and the angry jerk, no offense.
None taken.
And I'll go with Toph to warn the Earth King about Azula's coup.
So, Toph thinks you give pretty good advice...
And great tea.
The key to both is proper aging.
What's on your mind?
Well, I met with this Guru who was supposed to help me master the Avatar State, and control this great power.
But to do it, I had to let go of someone I love, and I just couldn't.
Perfection and power are overrated.
I think you were very wise to choose happiness and love.
What happens if we can't save everyone and beat Azula?
Without the Avatar State, what if I'm not powerful enough?
I don't know the answer.
Sometimes life is like this dark tunnel.
You can't always see the light at the end of the tunnel, but if you just keep moving...
...you will come to a better place.
There's General How.
[STRAINING]
What's going on here?
You're under house arrest.
The coup is happening right now.
We've gotta warn the Earth King.
[SCREAMING]
[BOTH SCREAMING]
Thank goodness we're in time!
In time for what?
Yeah, what are you in time for...
...cutie?
Uh, I'm kinda involved with Suki.
Who? [GASPS]
They're not the real Kyoshi Warriors!
[GASPS]
Sorry to disappoint you.
-[LAUGHING] -[GASPS]
[GASPING]
Ooh, it's like we're dancing together.
This fight is over.
Get them all out of my sight.
Now comes the part where I double-cross you.
Dai Li, arrest the Fire Nation Princess.
I said, arrest her.
What is wrong with you?
It's because they haven't made up their minds.
They're waiting to see how this is going to end.
What are you talking about?
I can see your whole history in your eyes.
You were born with nothing, so you've had to struggle and connive and claw your way to power.
But true power, the divine right to rule, is something you're born with.
The fact is, they don't know which one of us is going to be sitting on that throne and which one is going to be bowing down.
But I know and you know.
Well?
You've beaten me at my own game.
Don't flatter yourself.
You were never even a player.
I'm sorry I yelled at you before.
It doesn't matter.
It's just that for so long now, whenever I would imagine the face of the enemy, it was your face.
My face.
I see.
No, no, that's not what I meant.
It's okay.
I used to think this scar marked me.
The mark of the banished prince, cursed to chase the Avatar forever.
But lately, I've realized I'm free to determine my own destiny, even if I'll never be free of my mark.
Maybe you could be free of it.
-What? -I have healing abilities.
It's a scar. It can't be healed.
This is water from the Spirit Oasis at the North Pole.
It has special properties, so I've been saving it for something important.
I don't know if it would work, but...
[ROCKS SHATTERING]
Aang!
Aang, I knew you would come.
Uncle, I don't understand.
What are you doing with the Avatar?
Saving you. That's what.
-[GROANS] -Zuko, it's time we talked.
Go help your other friends. We'll catch up with you.
Why, Uncle?
You are not the man you used to be, Zuko.
You are stronger and wiser and freer than you have ever been.
And now you have come to the crossroads of your destiny.
It's time for you to choose.
It's time for you to choose good.
-[LOUD RUMBLING] -[GASPS]
I expected this kind of treachery from Uncle, but Zuko, Prince Zuko, you're a lot of things, but you're not a traitor, are you?
Release him, immediately!
It's not too late for you, Zuko.
You can still redeem yourself.
The kind of redemption she offers is not for you.
Why don't you let him decide, Uncle?
I need you, Zuko.
I've plotted every move of this day, this glorious day in Fire Nation history, and the only way we win is together.
At the end of this day, you will have your honor back.
You will have Father's love.
You will have everything you want.
Zuko, I am begging you, look into your heart and see what it is that you truly want.
You are free to choose.
We've gotta find Sokka and Toph.
[GASPS]
[GRUNTS]
[GRUNTS]
See any Dai Li agents nearby?
Nope. All clear.
[METAL THUDDING]
Let's go!
I'm not leaving without Bosco!
[GASPS]
[GRUNTS]
[GROANS]
[GRUNTS]
[GRUNTING]
[GASPS]
[GRUNTS]
[GRUNTING]
[GROANING]
I thought you had changed!
[GRUNTS]
I have changed.
[GRUNTS]
Come on, it's easy.
You just walk on your front paws instead of your rear ones, like this...
[GASPING]
[GROWLING HAPPILY]
That is a nice trick.
Just take the bear.
-Bosco! -[GROWLING]
[GASPS]
[GROANS]
[LOUD RUMBLING]
[ROARS]
[SCREAMING]
[GRUNTS]
[GROANS]
AANG: There's too many.
GURU: The only way is to let her go.
I'm sorry, Katara.
[THUNDER CRASHING]
[ELECTRICITY CRACKLING]
[ALL SCREAMING]
You've got to get out of here!
I'll hold them off as long as I can!
[GRUNTS]
[APPA GROWLING]
Oh...
[SIGHS]
[GASPS]
AZULA: We've done it, Zuko.
It's taken a hundred years, but the Fire Nation has conquered Ba Sing Se.
I betrayed Uncle.
No, he betrayed you.
Zuko, when you return home, Father will welcome you as a war hero.
But I don't have the Avatar.
What if Father doesn't restore my honor?
He doesn't need to, Zuko.
Today, you restored your own honor.
The Earth Kingdom...
Has fallen.