Water.
Earth.
Fire.
Air.
Long ago, the four nations lived together in harmony.
Then, everything changed when the Fire Nation attacked.
Only the Avatar, master of all four elements, could stop them.
But when the world needed him most, he vanished.
A hundred years passed, and my brother and I discovered the new Avatar, an Airbender named Aang.
And although his airbending skills are great, he has a lot to learn before he's ready to save anyone.
Oof!
But I believe Aang can save the world.
Dad!
You're on your feet again.
Thanks to your sister.
I'm in no shape to fight, but maybe there is some way I could help.
Everything's going smoothly, and the eclipse hasn't even kicked in yet.
Let's hope our luck holds out.
Katara, you seem distracted.
Is something wrong?
Yeah.
Is that―is that Aang?
What?
Please tell you're here because the Fire Lord turned out to be a big wimp, and you didn't even need the eclipse to take him down?
He wasn't home.
No one was.
The entire palace city is abandoned.
They knew.
It's over.
The Fire Lord is probably long gone.
Far away on some remote island where he'll be safe during the eclipse.
No.
My instincts tell me he wouldn't go too far.
He would have a secret bunker.
Somewhere he could go, and it'll be safe during a siege, but still be close enough to lead his nation.
If it's an underground secret bunker we're looking for, I'm just the girl to find it.
The Mechanist gave me this timing device.
It looks like we've got about ten minutes until the full eclipse.
Ten minutes to find the Fire Lord.
We can still do this.
We can still win the day.
Wait.
If they knew we were coming, it could all be a trap.
Maybe we should use the time we have left to make sure we all get out of here safely.
Everyone who's here today came prepared to risk everything for this mission.
They know what's at stake.
If there's still a chance and there's still hope, I think they would want Aang to go for it.
What do you think?
You're the one who has to face the Fire Lord.
Whatever you decide, I'm with you.
I've got to try.
Do you feel anything down there?
Yep.
There are natural tunnels crisscrossing through the inside of the volcano.
Anything else?
Is there a structure somewhere?
There's something big, dense, and made of metal deep in the heart of the volcano.
Sounds like a secret bunker to me.
Stay safe.
We'll be back soon.
This way! That one's a dead end.
What would we do without you?
Perish and burn in hot magma.
Yeah, pretty much.
The tunnel continues on the other side and it leads right to the bunker.
We'll have to be fast but careful.
Ah!
How was that careful?
I was wrong.
We need to be fast, careful, and lucky.
There's no floor!
It's just a river of lava.
Climb aboard and hold on tight.
That's some door!
Not a problem.
I am so glad we added you to the group.
Retreat!
Everyone move to the secondary defensive position!
Retreat!
The eclipse is only minutes away.
We should be able to make it up the hill by the time it starts and secure the entire palace by the time it's finished!
We can wait here if you want.
No. I want to press forward with the others.
The Fire Lord's chamber is that way down the hall to the left and up the stairs. You can't miss it.
Thanks.
Only 30 seconds until the total eclipse.
I'm ready.
I'm ready to face the Fire Lord.
So, you are alive after all.
I had a hunch that you survived.
But it doesn't matter, I've known about the invasion for months.
I'm ready to face you.
Prince Zuko, what are you doing here?
The eclipse is starting!
Put on your eclipse glasses.
Why are you here?
I'm here to tell the truth.
Telling the truth during the middle of an eclipse.
This should be interesting.
First of all, in Ba Sing Se, it was Azula who took down the Avatar, not me.
Why would she lie to me about that?
Because the Avatar is not dead.
He survived.
What?
In fact, he's probably is leading this invasion.
He could be on us right now.
Get out!
Get out of my sight right now if you know what's good for you.
That's another thing.
I'm not taking orders from you anymore.
You will obey me or this defiant breath will be your last!
Think again!
I am going to speak my mind, and you are going to listen!
Where is he?
Where is the Fire Lord?
Hm, you mean I'm not good enough for you?
You're hurting my feelings.
Stop wasting our time and give us the information.
You're powerless right now, so you're in no position to refuse.
And stick to the truth.
I'll be able to tell if you're lying.
Are you sure?
I'm a pretty good liar.
I am a 400-foot-tall purple platypus bear with pink horns and silver wings.
Okay, you're good, I admit it.
But you really ought to consider telling the truth anyway.
When I left Ba Sing Se, I brought home some souvenirs.
Dai Li agents.
Surround the periphery!
We have to secure the palace by the time the eclipse is over.
Otherwise, we'll be in for the fight of our lives.
Stop!
Surrender peacefully, and we won't harm you.
We'll never surrender.
Er, okay, we surrender.
There it is.
The Fire Nation royal palace.
We've come so far.
It's not over yet.
For so long, all I wanted was for you to love me, to accept me.
I thought it was my honor that I wanted.
But really, I was just trying to please you.
You, my father, who banished me just for talking out of turn.
My father, who challenged me― a 13-year-old boy― to an Agni Kai.
How can you possibly justify a duel with a child?
It was to teach you respect.
It was cruel!
And it was wrong!
Then you've learned nothing.
No, I've learnt everything!
And I had to learn it on my own.
Growing up, we were taught that the Fire Nation was the greatest civilization in history.
And somehow, the war was our way of sharing our greatness with the rest of the world.
What an amazing lie that was.
The people of the world are terrified by the Fire Nation!
They don't see our greatness, they hate us!
And we deserve it.
We've created an era of fear in the world.
And if we don't want the world to destroy itself, we need to replace it with an era of peace and kindness.
Your Uncle has gotten to you, hasn't he?
Yes. He has.
I can't pin her down.
She's too quick.
Wait! Aang, Toph, stop attacking.
Don't you see what she's doing?
She's just playing with us.
She's not even trying to win this fight!
Not true, I'm giving it my all.
You're trying to keep us here and waste all our time!
Um, right.
I think your friend just said that, genius.
And since you can't see, I should tell you I'm rolling my eyes.
I'll roll your whole head!
She's just baiting you again.
Okay, so what do we do?
Just ignore her?
We don't have a choice, we just have to get out of here and find the Fire Lord on our own somehow.
It's a trap.
Don't say I didn't warn you.
Ignore!
So, Sokka's your name, right?
My favorite prisoner used to mention you all the time.
She was convinced that you were going to come rescue her.
Of course, you never came, and she gave up on you.
Come and get it.
Where is Suki?
After I leave here today, I'm going to free Uncle Iroh from his prison.
And I'm going to beg for his forgiveness.
He is the one who has been a real father to me.
That's just beautiful.
Maybe he can pass down to you the ways of tea and failure.
But I've come to an even more important decision.
I'm going to join the Avatar.
And I'm going to help him defeat you.
Really?
Since you're a full-blown traitor now, and you want me gone, why wait?
I'm powerless, you've got your swords, why don't you just do it now?
Because I know my own destiny.
Taking you down is the Avatar's destiny.
Goodbye.
Coward! You think you're brave enough to face me, but you'll only do it during the eclipse.
If you have any real courage, you'll stick around until the Sun comes out.
Don't you want to know what happened to your mother?
What happened that night?
My father―Fire Lord Azulon― had commanded me to do the unthinkable to you, my own son.
And I was going to do it.
Your Mother found out and swore she would protect you at any cost.
She knew I wanted the throne, and she proposed a plan.
A plan in which I would become Fire Lord and your life would be spared.
Where's Suki?
Answer me!
Sokka, she won't talk.
Where are you keeping her?
Your Mother did vicious, treasonous things that night.
She knew the consequences and accepted them.
For her treason, she was banished.
So she's alive.
Perhaps.
Now I realize that banishment is far too merciful a penalty for treason.
Your penalty will be far steeper.
Oh. Sounds like the fire-bending's back on.
Dad's all the way at the end of the hall and down the secret stairway on the left.
I'm sure he'll be more than happy to see you now.
I fell for it!
I used up all our time.
It's not your fault, Sokka.
Azula was ready for us.
She had every move planned out.
And now it's too late.
Maybe it's not too late.
The eclipse is over, but I can face the Fire Lord anyway.
No.
I don't think that's a good idea.
But I'm ready!
I came here with a job to do, and everyone's counting on me.
The Fire Lord knew we were coming this time.
We thought we had surprise on our side, but we didn't.
It just wasn't our day.
What we need to do now is go help our friends.
I guess you guys are right.
You'll have another chance.
I know you will.
What should we do, Hakoda?
Shouldn't something have happened by now?
I don't know.
But now that the eclipse is over, I expect we're going to see some Firebenders any minute.
My own invention.
Oh, this is terrible!
They're back!
It was all a trap.
Azula knew we were coming, and she's plotted out every move.
We just got to get to the beach as fast as we can.
If we can make it to the submarines, maybe we can get away safely.
They've got air power, but so do I!
I'm going to do what I can to slow them down.
Appa, you and I can help, too.
Everyone, let's get back to the subs!
We can't keep them all back.
They're too many of them!
Let's join the others.
Uncle!
Where is my Uncle?
He's gone.
He busted himself out.
I―I've never seen anything like it!
He was like a one man army!
Try and find cover!
I think we're about to see some bombs.
Why aren't they turning around to attack us again?
They're headed for the beach.
They're going to destroy the submarines!
How are we all going to escape?
We're not.
Then our only choice is to stand and fight.
We have the Avatar, we could still win!
Yes, with the Avatar we could still win on another day.
You kids have to leave.
You have to escape on Appa together.
What?
We can't leave you behind.
We won't leave anyone behind.
You're our only chance in the long run.
You and Sokka have to go with Aang somewhere safe.
It's the only way to keep hope alive.
The youngest of our group should go with you.
The adults will stay behind and surrender.
We'll be prisoners, but we'll all survive this battle.
I've got some experience with the Fire Nation prisons.
It's not going to be easy, but we'll get by.
They're at the beach already!
Bye, son.
Bye, Dad.
I'm really proud of you.
I'll miss you, Pipsqueak.
Take care, The Duke.
We'll be back for you, Dad.
If we don't escape on our own first.
We lost today, but we've never been this close.
We tasted victory, and that counts for something.
We'll miss you, Dad.
Bye, Dad.
We won't be apart for too long this time.
I promise.
Thank you all for being so brave and so strong.
I'm going to make this up to you.
Should we follow them, Princess?
No. They're too fast.
It doesn't matter, they'll be back.
I know just the place for us to go where we'll be safe for a while.
The Western Air Temple.