Water.
Earth.
Fire.
Air.
Long ago, the four nations lived together in harmony.
Then, everything changed when the Fire Nation attacked.
Only the Avatar, master of all four elements, could stop them.
But when the world needed him most, he vanished.
A hundred years passed, and my brother and I discovered the new Avatar, an Airbender named Aang.
And although his airbending skills are great, he has a lot to learn before he's ready to save anyone.
Oof!
But I believe Aang can save the world.
Top of the morning, Momo!
Sounds like you slept well.
Like a baby moose lion.
I'm ready to face the Fire Lord.
So what's your strategy for taking him down?
Going to get your glow on and hit him with a little Avatar State action?
I can't.
When Azula shot me with lightning, my seventh chakra was locked, cutting off my connection to all the cosmic energy in the Universe.
You know what I just heard?
Blah-blah spiritual mumbo jumbo, blah-blah something about space.
Oh no.
Sokka, do you think the fog will delay the invasion?
No, that is the invasion.
You made it, Dad!
Were you able to locate everyone I told you to find?
I did, but I'm a little worried, Sokka.
Some of these men aren't exactly the warrior type.
Whooo-wheee.
This place ain't nothing like a swamp.
What'd you reckon that is, Tho?
Some sort of Fire Nation exploding trap that would eat ya?
It's just a rock, Due.
Well, I'll be.
Is it just me, or are those fellas a little loose in the leaf hat?
I just wish they would wear pants.
Pants are an illusion.
And so is death.
Hi, Katara.
Haru, it's so good to see you.
Toph, this is Haru.
When we met him, his town was controlled by the Fire Nation.
So we had to hide his Earth-bending.
Katara inspired me and my father to take back our village.
You helped us find our courage, Katara.
Now we're here to help you.
No way. Is that― Hippo happy to see Blind Bandit!
You guys here for a rematch?
Negatory.
The Boulder and The Hippo no longer fight for others' entertainment.
Now, we fight for our Kingdom!
Sweet!
Was that a new invention?
Yes.
But unfortunately, the incendiary capabilities of peanut sauce proved to be a failure.
You're making peanut sauce bombs?
They're destructive.
And delicious!
Were you able to complete work on the plans I sent you?
Yes, I was.
And I think the Fire Nation will be quite surprised.
Aang, my dad and I made this for you.
A new glider!
This is amazing.
And as a special feature, I added a snack compartment.
Oh well, I'm sure that will come in handy.
I bet you're tired of being in that cell, old man.
Well, too bad.
You're never stepping outside these walls again.
Breakfast.
Don't get too close.
His stench will knock you right out.
I snuck in some white jade tea.
I know you like rare teas.
Thank you, Ming.
Ever since I was put in here, you have been very kind to me.
Don't worry, you'll do great.
Good morning, everyone!
Ah!
Um...
So, as you know, today we're invading the Fire Nation.
I mean I know you know that.
Because otherwise why else would you be here.
Anyway...
The Fire Lord's palace is here.
Uh no, uh wait―uh wait―uh wait, it's here.
And, uh, there's an eclipse today.
And Aang's going to fight the Fire Lord.
And the Firebenders won't have any fire to use, so that's good for us.
And um―I'm sorry, let me start at the beginning.
Katara and I discovered Aang frozen in an iceberg.
Now I didn't like Aang at first, but I grew to love him over time, then we went over to the Southern Air Temple, where Aang used to live, and then we met Suki, -who is a Kyoshi warrior. Wow, when he says beginning, he means the beginning beginning.
...got Haru arrested, and then now he's grown a mustache.
And if you look in the front― HAKODA: Thank you, Sokka.
It's okay, why don't you take a break?
Let me just clarify a few points for everyone.
Today is the Day of Black Sun.
And I want to thank you all for your self-sacrifice and your courage.
There are two steps to the invasion.
A naval stage and then a land stage.
To gain sea access to the Fire Nation capital, we have to get past our first major obstacle here.
The Great Gates of Azulon.
Next, we hit the land, and we hit hard.
We must fight past their battlements and secure the plaza tower.
Once we do that, it's up to the royal palace.
At that point, the eclipse will begin.
Excuse me.
The Boulder is confused.
Isn't the point to invade during the eclipse?
When the Firebenders are powerless?
The eclipse only lasts eight minutes.
Not enough time for the whole invasion.
And the royal palace is heavily guarded by Firebenders.
So that's where we'll need the eclipse advantage the most.
When this is finished, the Avatar would have defeated the Fire Lord.
We would have control of the Fire Nation capital.
And this war will be over!
We've been looking everywhere for you.
The boats are ready to leave.
I messed up, Aang.
What?
The invasion plan was my moment of truth.
And I completely flopped it.
I just...fell apart.
Sokka, that speech wasn't your moment of truth.
That was just public speaking, and nobody's really good at that.
My dad is.
He explained the plan perfectly and inspired everyone.
Like a real leader should.
Look, your moment of truth isn't going to be in front of some map.
It's going to be out there on the battlefield.
You seem so confident about everything.
How do you know we're going to win?
Because I already failed the world once at Ba Sing Se.
I won't let myself fail again.
There they are.
The Great Gates of Azulon.
I don't see any gates.
Katara, you and the Swamp-Benders whip up a fog cover.
We'll sneak by that statues just like we sneaked by that fire navy blockade.
Keep it up, we're almost through.
Everyone below deck.
Let's hope your invention works.
No one's on board, Sir.
Where'd they go?
You really outdone yourself this time, son.
Yeah.
Congratulations, Sokka.
You managed to invent a worse way of travel than flying.
Helmet?
Well, I just came up with the idea.
The Mechanist did all the work.
But don't sell yourself short, my boy.
It was your idea to use water-bending to make the subs sink and float.
Brilliant!
Though your original designs were a bit difficult to decipher.
Unfortunately, there is one problem I couldn't fix.
The subs have a limited air supply.
Before we land on the beaches, we'll need to resurface.
Lunchtime, General Iroh.
And this time, I brought you an extra bowl of rice.
Thank you, Ming.
Your little gestures of kindness have made my days in prison bearable.
I think you should take the rest of the day off.
What? You don't look well.
Maybe you should go home and rest.
No, I feel fine.
Trust me.
It is better that you are not here this afternoon.
So, this is it, huh?
Are you ready for the Fire Nation to know the Avatar's alive?
I'm ready.
I hope you kick some serious Fire Lord butt, twinkle toes.
Everyone, listen up.
The next time we resurface, it'll be on the beaches.
So stay alert and fight smart.
Now break time's over, back in the subs.
Aang, I― Katara, I― You go first.
We've been through so many things together.
And I've seen you grow up so much.
You're not that little goofy kid I found in the iceberg anymore.
I guess what I'm trying to say is I'm really proud of you.
Everything is going to be different after today, isn't it?
Yes, it is.
What if―what if I don't come back?
Aang, don't say that.
Of course you'll―
Katara, what are you doing?
It's time to submerge.
What? Right, I'm on it.
I'm sorry, Mai.
What do you know?
It did come in handy.
Everyone in position.
Earthbenders, into your tanks.
This is going to be a rough ride.
Ready the torpedo.
Launch!
We're a man down.
Where in tarnation is Hue?
Hey Hue, where you been?
Communing with nature.
Takes a while to collect this much seaweed.
Dad, look out!
Sokka, we've got to take out those battlements.
It's our only chance.
I've got an idea.
Ah!
Ah, ah!
You two take out that battlement.
I've got this one.
Watch each other's backs.
Dad?
Dad!
I know I've made some bad choices.
But today...
I'm gonna set things right.
How does that feel, Dad?
A-a little better.
I need to get back...to the troops.
You're hurt...badly.
You can't fight anymore.
Everyone's counting on me to lead this mission, Katara.
I won't let them down.
Can't you heal him any faster?
I'm doing everything I can.
I'll do it.
No offense, Sokka, but you're not exactly Mr. Healing Hands.
No, I'll lead the invasion force.
Don't be crazy, Sokka.
Maybe I am a little crazy but the eclipse is about to start, and we need to be up that volcano by the time it does.
You can do this.
I'm proud of you, son.
I still think you're crazy.
But I'm proud of you, too.
Yip yip.
Listen up, everyone!
I want the tanks in wedge formation!
Warriors and benders in the middle.
We're taking that tower and headed for the royal palace!
Charge!
That's strange.
The Avatar is back!
Hello?
Anyone home?
The Fire Nation is falling back!
Sokka, we're on our way to victory.
No.
No, no, no!
Fire Lord Ozai, where are you?