Water.
Earth.
Fire.
Air.
Long ago, the four nations lived together in harmony.
Then, everything changed when the Fire Nation attacked.
Only the Avatar, master of all four elements, could stop them.
But when the world needed him most, he vanished.
100 years passed, and my brother and I discovered the new Avatar, an airbender named Aang.
And although his airbending skills are great he has a lot to learn before he's ready to save anyone.
Oof.
But I believe Aang can save the world.
I need you, Zuko.
I've plotted every move of this day, and the only way we win is together.
We've done it, Zuko.
The Fire Nation has conquered Ba Sing Se.
I betrayed uncle.
No, he betrayed you.
When you return home, father will welcome you as a war hero.
But I don't have the Avatar.
What if father doesn't restore my honor?
What happened?
Oh, no!
You hear something?
He's awake.
Stop, wait!
Momo?
Twinkle-toes, that's got to be you.
Aang, you're awake.
Are you sure?
I feel like I'm dreaming.
You're not dreaming.
You're finally awake.
Aang, good to see you back with the living, buddy.
Sokka?
Uh-oh, somebody catch him.
He's gonna...
Aren't you cold?
I've got a lot on my mind.
It's been so long.
Over three years since I was home.
I wonder what's changed.
I wonder how I've changed.
I just asked if you were cold.
I didn't ask for your whole life story.
Stop worrying.
Why are we on a Fire Nation ship?
Why is everyone dressed this way?
And why am I the only one who's completely out of it?
You need to take it easy, ok?
You got hurt pretty bad.
I like your hair.
I have hair?
How long was I out?
A few weeks.
Everything ok?
We're fine, dad.
I'm Hakoda, Katara and Sokka's father.
He knows who you are. I just called you "dad," didn't I?
I guess you're right.
Nice to officially meet you, Chief Hakoda.
It's an honor to meet you.
Great, great. Now you guys have finally met, so would you mind giving us a little privacy?
Of course.
Are you mad at your dad or something?
What? Not at all. Why would you say that?
Maybe we should go upstairs.
You need a healing session.
Tell me where your pain feels most intense.
A little higher.
Wow.
You're definitely in the right area there.
I can feel a lot of energy twisted up around there.
Let me just see if I can...
I went down.
I didn't just get hurt, did I?
It was worse than that.
I was gone, but you brought me back.
I just used the spirit water from the North Pole.
I don't know what I did, exactly.
You saved me.
You need to rest.
Your Princess Azula, clever and beautiful, disguised herself as the enemy and entered the Earth Kingdom's capital.
In Ba Sing Se, she found her brother Zuko, and together, they faced the Avatar.
And the Avatar fell, and the Earth Kingdom fell.
Azula's agents quickly overtook the entire city.
They went to Ba Sing Se's great walls...
...and brought them down.
The armies of the Fire Nation surged through the wall and swarmed over Ba Sing Se, securing our victory.
Now the heroes have returned home.
Your princess, Azula.
And after three long years, your prince has returned.
Zuko.
After what happened in Ba Sing Se, we had to get you to safety.
We flew back to Chameleon Bay, where we found my father and the other water tribe men.
The Earth King decided he wanted to travel the world in disguise, so he set off alone.
Well, not completely alone.
Soon, the bay was overrun with Fire Nation ships.
Rather than fight them all, we captured a single ship and made it our disguise.
Since then, we've been traveling west.
We crossed through the Serpent's Pass a few days ago.
We've seen a few Fire Nation ships, but none have bothered us.
So, what now?
We've been working on a modified version of the invasion plan.
It's Sokka's invasion plan.
Yes, Sokka's plan.
We won't be able to mount a massive invasion without the Earth King's armies But the solar eclipse will still leave the Fire Nation vulnerable.
So we're planning a smaller invasion.
Just a ragtag team of our friends and allies from around the Earth Kingdom.
We already ran into Pipsqueak and The Duke.
Good to see you again, Aang.
And the best part is, the eclipse isn't even our biggest advantage.
We have a secret.
You. Me?
Yep, the whole world thinks you're dead.
Isn't that great?
The world thinks I'm dead?
How is that good news?
That's terrible.
No, it's great.
It means the Fire Nation won't be hunting us anymore.
And even better, they won't be expecting you on the day of black sun.
No, no, no, no, no.
You have no idea.
This is so messed up.
I'll handle this.
The Avatar is back.
Aang, wait.
Remember, they don't know we're not Fire Nation.
Everyone, just stay calm.
Bato and I will take care of this.
I hate not being able to do anything.
Hopefully, you won't need to.
Commander, why are you off course?
All western fleet ships are supposed to be moving toward Ba Sing Se to support the occupation.
Actually, we're from the eastern fleet.
We have orders to deliver some cargo.
Ah, eastern fleet.
Well, nice of Admiral Chan to let us know he was sending one of his ships our way.
I'm sure Admiral Chan meant no disrespect, sir.
I mean, how hard is it to write a quick note and send a hawk our way?
Next time, we'll send two hawks, to be sure you get the message.
Sir, Admiral Chan has been on leave for two months at Ember Island.
What? Why doesn't anyone ever tell me anything?
Something's not right.
They should've known that.
I think this is a captured ship.
Just stay quiet until we're safely across the ramp.
Then we'll sink this ship.
They know!
You seem so downcast.
Has Mai gotten to you already?
Though actually, Mai has been in a strangely good mood lately.
I haven't seen dad yet.
I haven't seen him in three years, since I was banished.
So what?
So, I didn't capture the Avatar.
Who cares? The Avatar's dead.
Unless you think he somehow miraculously survived.
This is water from the spirit oasis at the North Pole.
It has special properties, so I've been saving it for something important.
No.
There's no way he could've survived.
Well, then I'm sure you have nothing to worry about.
Load the Toph!
I'm gonna give us some cover.
I can't just stand by and do nothing.
Aang, no!
You're still hurt, and you have to stay secret.
Just let us handle this.
Fine.
How we doing?
Things couldn't get much worse.
The universe just loves proving me wrong, doesn't it?
You make it too easy.
Thank you, the universe.
Hey, Aang.
We're going into town to find some dinner.
Well, I am pretty hungry.
Maybe dinner's a good idea.
Here, tie this around your head.
It'll cover your arrow.
I'm not going out if I can't wear my arrow proudly.
Aang, come on.
Be practical.
You guys go ahead without us.
We'll catch up with you.
I think I understand why being a secret bothers you so much.
You don't want people to think you failed.
You're right, I don't.
But the problem is, I did fail.
Aang, that's not true.
It is true.
I was in Ba Sing Se.
I was there, but I lost.
And now, the Earth Kingdom has fallen for good.
It's not for good.
Remember, there's still a plan.
The invasion.
And I hate the invasion plan, too.
I don't want you or anyone else risking your lives to fix my mistakes.
I've always known that I would have to face the Fire Lord But now I know I need to do it alone.
Aang.
Katara, please.
Just go, please.
Is there anything you need?
I need to redeem myself.
I need my honor back.
I brought you some food.
Oh, no.
You have been away for a long time.
I see the weight of your travels has changed you.
You have redeemed yourself, my son.
Welcome home.
I'll leave you two alone.
What's wrong, Katara?
He left.
What?
Aang.
He just took his glider and disappeared.
He has this ridiculous notion that he has to save the world alone That it's all his responsibility.
Maybe that's his way of being brave.
It's not brave. It's selfish and stupid.
We could be helping him, and I know the world needs him, but doesn't he know how much that we need him too?
How could he just leave us behind?
You're talking about me too, aren't you?
How could you leave us, dad?
I mean, I know we had Gran-Gran, and she loved us, but...
But we were just so lost without you.
I'm so sorry, Katara.
I understand why you left.
I really do, and I know that you had to go, so why do I still feel this way?
I was so sad and angry, and hurt.
I love you more than anything.
You and your brother are my entire world.
I thought about you every day I was gone, and every night when I went to sleep I would lie awake missing you so much it would ache.
I am proud of you, Prince Zuko.
I am proud because you and your sister conquered Ba Sing Se.
I am proud because when your loyalty was tested by your treacherous uncle you did the right thing and captured the traitor And I am proudest of all of your most legendary accomplishment.
You slayed the Avatar.
What did you hear?
Azula told me everything.
She said she was amazed and impressed with your power and ferocity at the moment of truth.
Blockade.
Why'd you do it?
You're going to have to be a little more specific.
Why did you tell father that I was the one who killed the Avatar?
Can't this wait until morning?
It can't.
Fine.
You seemed so worried about how father would treat you because you hadn't captured the Avatar.
I figured, if I gave you the credit, you'd have nothing to worry about.
But why?
Call it a generous gesture.
I wanted to thank you for your help, and I was happy to share the glory.
You're lying.
If you say so.
You have another motive for doing this.
I just haven't figured out what it is.
Please, Zuko.
What ulterior motive could I have?
What could I possibly gain by letting you get all the glory for defeating the Avatar?
Unless, somehow, the Avatar was actually alive.
All that glory would suddenly turn to shame and foolishness.
But you said yourself, that was impossible.
Sleep well, Zu Zu.
I'm not gonna make it.
I failed.
Roku?
You haven't failed, Aang.
But everyone thinks I'm dead again.
They think I've abandoned them, and I'm losing this war.
I'm letting the whole world down.
If anyone is to blame for the state of the world, it is me.
I should've seen this war coming, and prevented it.
You inherited my problems and my mistakes But I believe you are destined to redeem me, and save the world.
I don't know.
You already saved the world.
And you'll save the world again.
But you can't give up.
You're right.
I won't give up.
You're ok.
I have so much to do.
I know, but you'll have our help.
You didn't think you could get out of training just by coming to the Fire Nation, did you?
What about the invasion?
We'll join up with my dad and the invasion force on the day of the eclipse.
Hey, what's...
Oh, it's your glider.
That's ok.
If someone saw it, it would give away my identity.
It's better for now that no one knows I'm alive.