Water.
Earth.
Fire.
Air.
Long ago, the four nations lived together in harmony.
Then, everything changed when the Fire Nation attacked.
Only the Avatar, master of all four elements, could stop them.
But when the world needed him most, he vanished.
A hundred years passed, and my brother and I discovered the new Avatar, an airbender named Aang.
And although his airbending skills are great, he has a lot to learn before he's ready to save anyone.
Oof!
But I believe Aang can save the world.
Hey, I remember her. She helped you attack us.
Yep. Back in the good old days.
Oh, great, it's Prince Pouty.
Where's your creepy grandpa?
He's my uncle. And he's not here.
I see you worked things out with your girlfriend.
I'm not his girlfriend! She's not my girlfriend!
Okay, okay, sheesh. I was only teasing.
So what do you want?
I need your help finding the Avatar.
Hmm, doesn't sound too fun.
Does the end of the world sound like more fun?
Nyla?
Whose my little snuffly-wuffly?
Whoa! Careful there!
Okay, so who's got something with the Avatar's scent on it?
I have Aang's staff.
Well, what does that mean?
It means your friend's gone.
We know he's gone.
That's why we're trying to find him.
No, I mean he's gone-gone.
He doesn't exist.
Where are we, Momo?
Maybe I'm in the Spirit World?
But, wait, you can see me.
We could both be in the Spirit World.
Nope, my bending works.
Maybe if we climb to the top of the island, we can figure out where we are.
What do you mean Aang doesn't exist?
Nope, we could find him if he were dead.
Oh, it's a real head-scratcher.
See ya.
Helpful. Real helpful.
Wait, I have another idea.
There's only one other person in this world who can help us face the Fire Lord.
I'll be right back with a smell sample.
You saved your uncle's sweaty sandal?
I think it's kind of sweet.
Let's do this.
Hey, wait up!
We're going to Ba Sing Se?
Your uncle is somewhere beyond the wall.
Nyla is getting twitchy, so he can't be too far.
Good luck.
It's been a long day.
Let's camp and start our search again at dawn.
It's a hexagon.
It doesn't seem like normal rock.
It's not made of earth.
This is so strange.
I wish some help right now. I wish I had Roku.
I do have Roku!
You're right, Aang.
All the past Avatars, all their experience and wisdom is available to you, if you look deep inside yourself.
So, where am I, Roku? What is this place?
I don't know, Aang.
But I see that you are lost in more ways than one right now.
I am.
I need to figure out what to do once I face the Fire Lord.
Huh?
Well, look who's here.
Everyone expects me to take the Fire Lord's life.
But I just don't know if I can do that.
In my life, I tried to be disciplined and show restraint, but it backfired when Fire Lord Sozin took advantage of my restraint and mercy.
If had been more decisive, and acted sooner, I could have stopped Sozin and stopped the war before it started.
I offer you this wisdom, Aang.
You must be decisive.
What's going on?
We're surrounded by old people.
Not just any old people, these are great masters and friends of ours.
Pakku.
It is respectful to bow to an old master.
But how about a hug for your new grandfather?
That's so exciting!
You and Gran-Gran must be so happy to have found each other again.
I made her a new betrothal necklace and everything.
Welcome to the family, Gramp-Gramp!
You can still just call me Pakku.
How about Gramp-Pakku?
No.
And this was Aang's first firebending teacher.
Jeong Jeong.
Master Piandao.
Hello, Sokka.
So, wait, how do you all know each other?
All old people know each other, don't you know that?
We're all are part of the same ancient secret society, a group that transcends the divisions of the four nations.
The Order of the White Lotus.
That's the one.
The White Lotus has always been about philosophy, and beauty, and truth.
But about a month ago, a call went out that we were needed for something important.
It came from a Grand Lotus, your uncle, Iroh of the Fire Nation.
Well, that's who we're looking for.
Then we'll take you to him.
Wait, someone's missing from your group, someone very important.
Where's Momo?
He's gone... And so is Aang.
Oh, well, so long as they have each other, I'm sure we have nothing to worry about.
Let's go!
Avatar Kyoshi, I need your wisdom.
In my day, Chin The Conqueror threatened to throw the world out of balance.
I stopped him and the world entered a great era of peace.
But you didn't really kill Chin.
Technically, he fell to his own doom because he was too stubborn to get out of the way.
Personally, I don't really see the difference.
But I assure you, I would have done whatever it took to stop Chin.
I offer you this wisdom, Aang.
Only justice will bring peace.
I knew I shouldn't have asked Kyoshi...
So, Bumi, how did you end up escaping your imprisonment in Omashu?
Escape? I didn't escape.
Everybody else escaped.
There I was, back in Omashu, waiting for just the right moment.
I didn't know what or when, but I knew I'd know it when I knew it.
An eclipse! That'll do it!
What do you think you're doing?
Taking back my city.
You've got no firepower, and it's payback time!
Wow, you took back your whole city all by yourself.
So, what about you guys?
Did you do anything interesting on the day of the eclipse?
Nah. No, not really.
I need to look deep inside myself.
I am Avatar Kuruk.
When I was young, I was always a "go with the flow" kind of Avatar.
People seemed to work out their own problems, and there was peace and good times in the world.
But then, I lost the woman I loved to Koh, the face stealer.
It was my fault.
If I had been more attentive and more active, I could have saved her.
Aang, you must actively shape your own destiny, and the destiny of the world.
Well, here we are. Welcome to old people camp.
Where? Where is he?
Your uncle's in there, Prince Zuko.
Are you okay?
No, I'm not okay.
My uncle hates me, I know it.
He loved me and supported me in every way he could, and I still turned against him.
How can I even face him?
Zuko, you're sorry for what you did, right?
More sorry than I've been about anything in my entire life.
Then he'll forgive you. He will.
Uncle...
All these past Avatars, they keep telling me I'm gonna have to do it.
They don't get it.
You're right, maybe an Air Nomad Avatar will understand where I'm coming from.
I know you can't really talk.
Pretending you can just helps me think.
I'm going to pretend I didn't pretend to hear that.
I am Avatar Yangchen, young airbender.
Avatar Yangchen, the monks always taught me that all life is sacred, even the life of the tiniest spider-fly caught in its own web.
Yes, all life is sacred.
I know. I'm even a vegetarian.
I've always tried to solve my problems by being quick or clever, and I've only had to use violence for necessary defense, and I've certainly never used it to take a life.
Avatar Aang, I know that you're a gentle spirit, and the monks have taught you well, but this isn't about you.
This is about the world.
But the monks taught me, that I have to detach myself from the world so my spirit could be free.
Many great and wise Air Nomads have detached themselves and achieved spiritual enlightenment.
But the Avatar can never do it, because your sole duty is to the world.
Here is my wisdom for you...
Selfless duty calls you to sacrifice your own spiritual needs and do whatever it takes to protect the world.
I guess I don't have a choice, Momo.
I have to kill the Fire Lord.
Uncle, I know you must have mixed feelings about seeing me.
But I want you to know I am so, so sorry, Uncle.
I am so sorry and ashamed of what I did.
I don't know how I can ever make it up to you, but I―
How can you forgive me so easily?
I thought you would be furious with me.
I was never angry with you.
I was sad, because I was afraid you'd lost your way.
I did lose my way.
But you've found it again...
And you did it by yourself, and I am so happy you found your way here.
It wasn't that hard, Uncle.
You have a pretty strong scent.
Wait, is it just me or are those mountains getting bigger?
They're not getting larger, they're getting closer.
The whole island is moving!
It's amazing, Momo!
The biggest animal in the world!
I've gotta swim around and find its face.
Uncle, you're the only person other than the Avatar who can possibly defeat the Father Lord.
You mean the Fire Lord?
That's what I just said.
Hmm...
We need you to come with us.
No, Zuko.
It won't turn out well.
You can beat him and we'll be there to help.
Even if I did defeat Ozai, and I don't know that I could, it would be the wrong way to end a war.
History would see it as just more senseless violence, a brother killing a brother to grab power.
The only way for this war to end peacefully is for the Avatar to defeat the Fire Lord.
And then... Then would you come and take your rightful place on the throne?
No. Someone new must take the throne...
An idealist with a pure heart and unquestionable honor.
It has to be you, Prince Zuko.
Unquestionable honor?
But I've made so many mistakes.
Yes, you have.
You've struggled and you've suffered, but you have always followed your own path.
You restored your own honor, and only you can restore the honor of the Fire Nation.
I'll try, Uncle.
Well, what if Aang doesn't come back?
Sozin's Comet is arriving and our destinies are upon us.
Aang will face the Fire Lord.
When I was a boy, I had a vision that I would one day take Ba Sing Se.
Only now do I see that my destiny is to take it back from the Fire Nation, so the Earth Kingdom can be free again.
That's why you gathered the members of the White Lotus.
Yes.
Zuko, you must return to the Fire Nation, so that when the Fire Lord falls, you can assume the throne and restore peace and order.
But Azula will be there waiting for you.
I can handle Azula.
Not alone. You'll need help.
You're right.
Katara, how would you like to help me put Azula in her place?
It would be my pleasure.
What about us? What's our destiny today?
What do you think it is?
I think that even though we don't know where Aang is, we need to do everything we can to stop the airship fleet.
And that means, when Aang does face the Fire Lord, we'll be right there if he need us.
Nothing runs faster over land or swims quicker than a giant eel-hound.
The airship base is on a small island just off the Earth Kingdom shore.
You should be able to intercept the fleet within a day's journey.
Thank you, master.
So, if I'm gonna be Fire Lord after the war's over, what are you gonna do?
After I reconquer Ba Sing Se, I am going to reconquer my tea shop and I am going to play Pai Sho every day.
Goodbye, General Iroh. Goodbye, everyone.
Today, destiny is our friend. I know it.
A Lion Turtle.
Maybe you can help me.
Everyone, even my own past lives are expecting me to end someone's life.
But I don't know if I can do it.
The true mind can weather all the lies and illusions without being lost.
The true heart can tough the poison of hatred without being harmed.
Since beginningless time, darkness thrives in the void, but always yields to purifying light.
Wait for him.
He will come.
It's time for this world to end in fire and for a new world to be born from the ashes.