Water.
Earth.
Fire.
Air.
Long ago, the four nations lived together in harmony.
Then, everything changed when the Fire Nation attacked.
Only the Avatar, master of all four elements, could stop them.
But when the world needed him most, he vanished.
A hundred years passed, and my brother and I discovered the new Avatar, an airbender named Aang.
And although his airbending skills are great, he has a lot to learn before he's ready to save anyone.
Oof!
But I believe Aang can save the world.
More ferocious!
Imagine striking through your opponent's heart.
I'm trying.
Now, let me hear you roar like a tiger-dillo!
That sounded pathetic.
I said, roar!
Who wants a nice cool glass of watermelon juice?
Ooh, ooh, me, me, me!
Hey, your lesson's not over yet! Get back here!
Come on, Zuko, just take a break.
What's the big deal?
Fine.
If you wanna lounge around like a bunch of snail sloths all day, then go ahead!
Maybe Zuko's right.
Sitting around the house has made us pretty lazy.
But I know just the thing to change that― Beach party!
Check out my Appa sand-sculpture.
Not, bad baldy.
But I've been working on my sandbending.
You're gonna love this.
Whoa!
Wow, you even made a little Earth King and Bosco.
Try and top that, Sokka.
Ta-da!
Is that a blubbering blob-monster?
No, it's Suki!
Suki, we'll all understand if you break with him up over this.
I think it's sweet.
But it doesn't even look like―
What are you doing?
Teaching you a lesson.
What happened?
Zuko's gone crazy!
I made a sand sculpture of Suki and he destroyed it!
Oh, and he's attacking Aang.
Get a grip before I blast you off this roof!
Go ahead and do it.
Enough!
What's wrong with you? You could have hurt Aang.
What's wrong with me?
What's wrong with all of you?
How can you sit around having beach parties when Sozin's comet is only three days away?
Why are you all looking at me like I'm crazy?
About Sozin's comet― I was actually gonna wait to fight the Fire Lord until after it came.
After?
I'm not ready.
I need more time to master firebending.
And, frankly, your earthbending could still use some work, too.
So, you all knew Aang was gonna wait?
Honestly, if Aang tries to fight the Fire Lord right now, he's gonna lose.
No offense.
The whole point of fighting the Fire Lord before the comet was to stop the Fire Nation from winning the war.
But they pretty much won the war when they took Ba Sing Se.
Things can't get any worse.
You're wrong.
It's about to get worse than you can even imagine.
The day before the eclipse, my father asked me to attend an important war meeting.
It was what I'd dreamed about and wanted for so many years.
My father had finally accepted me back.
Welcome, Prince Zuko.
We waited for you.
General Shinu, your report.
Thank you, sir.
Ba Sing Se is still under our control, however, earthbender rebellions have prevented us from achieving total victory in the Earth Kingdom.
What is your recommendation?
Our army is spread too thin, but once the eclipse is over, and the invasion defeated, we should transfer more domestic forces into the Earth Kingdom.
Mmm...
Prince Zuko, you've been among the Earth Kingdom commoners.
Do you think that adding more troops will stop these rebellions?
The people of the Earth Kingdom are proud and strong.
They can endure anything as long as they have hope.
Yes, you're right.
We need to destroy their hope.
Well, that's not exactly what I― I think you should take their precious hope, and the rest of their land and burn it all to the ground.
Yes, yes, you're right Azula.
Sozin's comet is almost upon us, and on that day, it will endow us with the strength and power of a hundred suns.
No bender will stand a chance against us.
What are you suggesting, sir?
When the comet last came, my grandfather, Fire Lord Sozin, used it to wipe out the Air Nomads.
Now, I will use its power to end the Earth Kingdom...
Permanently!
From our airships we will rain fire over their lands, a fire that will destroy everything, and out of the ashes, a new world will be born.
A world in which all the lands are Fire Nation, and I am the supreme ruler of everything!
I wanted to speak out against this horrifying plan, but I'm ashamed to say I didn't.
My whole life, I've struggled to gain my father's love and acceptance.
But once I had it, I realized I'd lost myself getting there.
I'd forgotten who I was.
I can't believe this.
I always knew the Fire Lord was a bad guy.
But his plan is just pure evil.
What am I gonna do?
I know you're scared.
And I know you're not ready to save the world.
But if you don't defeat the Fire Lord before the comet comes, there won't be a world to save anymore.
Why didn't you tell me about your dad's crazy plan sooner?
I didn't think I had to.
I assumed you were still gonna fight him before the comet.
No one told me you decided to wait.
This is bad.
This is really, really bad.
Aang, you don't have to do this alone.
Yeah, if we all fight the Fire Lord together, we've got a shot at taking him down.
All right! Team Avatar is back!
Air.
Water.
Earth.
Fire.
Fan and sword.
Fighting the Fire Lord is gonna be the hardest thing we've ever done together.
But I wouldn't wanna do it any other way.
Yeah. All right.
Get over here, Zuko.
Being part of the group also means being part of group hugs.
There is one technique you need to know before facing my father...
How to redirect lightning.
If you let the energy in your own body flow, the lightning will follow it.
You turn your opponents' energy against them.
That's like waterbending. Exactly.
My uncle invented this technique himself by studying waterbenders.
So, have you ever redirected lightning before?
Once...
Against my father.
What did it feel like?
Exhilarating.
But terrifying.
You feel so powerful holding that much energy in your body, but you know if you make the wrong move... It's over.
Well, not over-over.
I mean, there is always Katara and a little spirit water action, am I right?
Actually, I used it all up after Azula shot you.
Oh.
You'll have to take Fire Lord's life before he takes yours.
Yeah, I'll just do that.
Gather around, Team Avatar.
In order to take out the Fire Lord, or, in this case, the Melon Lord, our timing has to be perfect.
First, Suki and I will draw his fire.
Then Katara and Zuko charge in with some liquidy hot offense, and while the Melon Lord is distracted, Aang swoops in and... Bam! He delivers the final blow.
Uh, what about me?
For now, you're the Melon Lord's forces.
So, I get to chuck flaming rocks at all of you?
Whatever makes the training feel more realistic.
Sweetness.
Mwa-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha!
Watch it, Toph!
I am not Toph, I am Melon Lord!
Mwa-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha!
Now, Aang!
What are you waiting for? Take him out!
I can't.
What's wrong with you?
If this was the real deal, you'd be shot full of lightning right now.
I'm sorry, but it just didn't feel right.
I didn't feel like myself.
There! That's how it's done.
I have a surprise for everyone!
I knew it! You did have a secret thing with Haru!
Uh... No.
I was looking for cooking pots in the attic and I found this.
Look at baby Zuko! Isn't he cute?
Oh, lighten up. I'm just teasing.
That's not me. It's my father.
But he looks so sweet and innocent.
Well, that sweet little kid grew up to be a monster.
And the worst father in the history of fathers.
But he's still a human being.
You're going to defend him?
No, I agree with you.
Fire Lord Ozai is a horrible person, and the world will probably be better off without him, but there's gotta be another way.
Like what?
I don't know.
Maybe we can make some big pots of glue and then I can use gluebending to stick his arms and legs together so he can't bend anymore.
Yeah, then you can show him his baby pictures and all those happy memories will make him good again.
Do you really think that would work?
No!
This goes against everything I learned from the monks.
I can't just go around wiping out people I don't like.
Sure, you can. You're the Avatar.
If it's in the name of keeping balance, I'm pretty sure the universe will forgive you.
This isn't a joke, Sokka!
None of you understand the position I'm in!
Aang, we do understand. It's just― Just what, Katara, what?
We're trying to help.
When you figure out a way for me to beat the Fire Lord without taking his life, I'd love to hear it!
Aang, don't walk away from this.
Let him go.
He needs time to sort it out by himself.
Hey, Momo.
I don't suppose you know what I should do.
I didn't think so.
Okay, that's everything.
No, it's not. Where's Aang?
Aang? Aang?
Come on, lazy bones, let's go!
He left his staff.
That's so strange.
Aang's not in a house. Let's check the beach.
Look! There's his footprints.
The trail ends here.
So, he went for a midnight swim and never came back?
Maybe he was captured.
I don't think so. There's no sign of a struggle.
I bet he ran away again.
Uh-uh. He left behind his glider and Appa.
Then what do you think happened to him, oh, sleuthy one?
It's pretty obvious.
Aang mysteriously disappears before an important battle?
He's definitely on a Spirit World journey.
But if he was, wouldn't his body still be here?
Oh, yeah, I forgot about that.
Then he's gotta be somewhere on Ember Island.
Let's split up and look for him.
I'm going with Zuko!
What?
Everyone else went on a life-changing field-trip with Zuko.
Now, it's my turn.
Aang! Aang!
Avatar State, yip-yip!
And then when I was nine, I ran away again.
Uh-huh. I know I shouldn't complain.
My parents gave me everything I ever asked for.
But they never gave the one thing that I really wanted...
Their love, you know what I mean?
Look, I know you had a rough childhood.
But we should really focus on finding Aang.
This is the worst field-trip ever.
Judging by the looks on your faces, I'm guessing you guys didn't find Aang, either.
No.
It's like he just disappeared.
Hey, wait a minute.
Has anyone noticed that Momo is missing, too?
Oh, no! I knew it was only a matter of time!
Appa ate Momo!
Momo, I'm coming for you, buddy!
Sokka, Appa didn't eat Momo. He's probably with Aang.
That's just what Appa wants you to think.
Get out of the bison's mouth, Sokka.
We have a real problem here.
Aang is nowhere to be found and the comet is only two days away.
What should we do, Zuko?
I don't know.
Why are you all looking at me?
Well, you are kind of the expert on tracking Aang.
Yeah, if anyone's got experience hunting the Avatar, it's you.
Zuko, I don't wanna tell you how to do your job, but why we are heading towards the Earth Kingdom?
There's no way Aang's there.
Just trust me.
Come on, slowpokes, faster!
Sorry I'm late, Father.
Good palanquin bearers are so hard to come by these days.
So, is everything ready for our departure?
There has been a change of plans, Azula.
What?
I've decided to lead the fleet of airships to Ba Sing Se alone.
You will remain here in the Fire Nation.
But, I thought we were going to do this together.
My decision is final.
You... You can't treat me like this!
You can't treat me like Zuko!
Azula, silence yourself.
But it was my idea to burn everything to the ground.
I deserve to be by your side!
Azula!
Listen to me.
I need you here to watch over the homeland.
It's a very important job that I can only entrust to you.
Really?
And for your loyalty, I've decided to declare you the new Fire Lord.
Fire Lord Azula?
It does seems appropriate.
But, what about you?
Fire Lord Ozai is no more.
Just as the world will be reborn in fire, I shall be reborn as the supreme ruler of the world.
From this moment on, I will be known as...
The Phoenix King!
And the reason you brought us to a seedy Earth Kingdom tavern is what now?
June.
Oh, yeah, that weird bounty hunter with the giant mole.
Mole? Her skin is flawless.
No, she has this giant mole-creature she rides around on.
The Shirshu.
It's the only animal that can track Aang's scent anywhere in the world.
It's the one shot we have of finding him.
I don't know who this June lady is, but I like her.
Hey, Momo. I just had the strangest dream.
Wait!
Where are we?