Water.
Earth.
Fire.
Air.
Long ago, the four nations lived together in harmony.
Then, everything changed when the Fire Nation attacked.
Only the Avatar, master of all four elements, could stop them.
But when the world needed him most, he vanished.
A hundred years passed, and my brother and I discovered the new Avatar, an airbender named Aang.
And although his airbending skills are great, he has a lot to learn before he's ready to save anyone.
Oof!
But I believe Aang can save the world.
Come on out, Avatar!
You can't hide in there forever!
Toph, metalbend the rudder, so it's jammed in the turning position.
The ship will spiral and slam into the others.
Got it.
Have I ever mentioned how sweet it is that you invented metalbending?
You could stand to mention it more.
Oh!
My leg!
Hang on, Toph. Aye-aye, Captain.
Bye, space sword.
I don't think Boomerang is coming back, Toph.
It's looks like this is the end.
How did that happen? Did Boomerang come back?
No, Suki did.
Come on out, little boy. You're about to be―
Huh!
Ah!
I'd really rather our family physician look after little Zu Zu, if you don't mind.
Zu Zu, you don't look so good.
Hyah!
There you are, filthy peasant.
Thank you, Katara.
I think I'm the one who should be thanking you.
Fire Lord Ozai, you and your forefathers have devastated the balance of this world, and now, you shall pay the ultimate price.
No. I am not gonna end it like this.
Even with all power in the world, you are still weak.
In the era before the Avatar, we bent not the elements, but the energy within ourselves.
To bend another's energy, your own spirit must be unbendable, or you will be corrupted and destroyed.
What? What did you do to me?
I took away your firebending.
You can't use it to hurt or threaten anyone else ever again.
You did it!
You should've seen yourself! It was amazing!
You were all like...
...and the Fire Lord was all like...
So, did you, you know, finish the job?
I'm still alive.
I learned there was another way to defeat him and restore balance.
I took his bending away.
Wow, who taught you that?
A giant lion turtle.
You have the craziest adventures when you disappear.
Well, look at you, buster.
Now that your firebending is gone, I guess we should call you the "Loser Lord".
I am the Phoenix King.
Oh, sorry, didn't mean to offend you, Phoenix King of getting his butt-whooped.
Yeah, or how about "King of... The Guys Who Don't Win"?
Leave the nicknames to us, honey.
You need some help with that?
Mai. You're okay.
They let you out of prison?
My uncle pulled some strings.
And it doesn't hurt when the new Fire Lord is your boyfriend.
So, does this mean you don't hate me anymore?
I think it means I actually kind of like you.
But don't ever break up with me again.
Dad! Dad!
I heard what you two did.
I am the proudest father in the world.
And your mother would be proud, too.
There's my favorite warriors.
I have to admit, I kinda missed the face paint.
So, how's it feel to be back in uniform again?
It feels great!
Careful, Suki!
Ty Lee's pretending to be a Kyoshi Warrior again.
It's okay.
She's one of us now.
Yeah, the girls and I really bonded in prison and after a few chi-blocking lessons, they said I could join their group.
We're gonna be best friends forever.
I can't believe a year ago my purpose in life was hunting you down and now...
And now we're friends.
Yeah. We are friends.
I can't believe a year ago I was still frozen in a block of ice.
The world's so different now.
And it's gonna be even more different.
We'll rebuild it together.
Please, the real hero...
Is the Avatar.
Today, this war is finally over!
I promised my uncle that I would restore the honor of the Fire Nation, and I will.
The road ahead of us is challenging.
A hundred years of fighting has left the world scarred and divided.
But with the Avatar's help, we can get it back on the right path, and begin a new era of love and peace.
All hail Fire Lord Zuko!
I should count myself lucky...
The new Fire Lord has graced me with his presence in my lowly prison cell.
You should count yourself lucky that the Avatar spared your life.
Hmm...
Banishing me was the best thing you could have done for my life.
It put me on the right path.
Perhaps your time in here can do the same for you.
Why are you really here?
Because you're gonna tell me something.
Where is my mother?
Zuko, stop moving!
I'm trying to capture the moment.
I wanted to do a painting, so we'd always remember the good times together.
That's very thoughtful of you, Sokka.
Wait, why did you give me Momo's ears?
Those are your hair loopies.
At least you don't look like a porcupine.
My hair is not that spiky.
I look like a man.
And why did you paint me firebending?
I thought it looked more exciting that way.
Oh, you think you could do a better job, Momo?
Hey, my belly is not that big anymore...
I've really trimmed down.
Well, I think you all look perfect!