Water.
Earth.
Fire.
Air.
Long ago the four nations lived together in harmony.
Then everything changed when the Fire Nation attacked.
Only the Avatar, master of all four elements, could stop them.
But when the world needed him most.
He vanished.
100 years passed and my brother and I discovered the new Avatar, an airbender named Aang.
And although his airbending skills are great, he has a lot to learn before he's ready to save anyone.
Oof.
But I believe Aang can save the world.
Ever since you joined us, you've been nothing but selfish and unhelpful.
What?
Look here, sugar queen.
I gave up everything I had so that I could teach Aang earthbending.
So don't you talk to me about being selfish.
The Avatar is alive.
L want you to find him, and end him.
This is crazy!
How can we beat a guy who blows things up with his mind?
We can't!
How could you do this to me?
You betrayed me.
You brought this on yourself.
I had no choice.
Okay, I'm ready for some training.
Good job, Twinkle-toes.
Visualize, then attack.
Maybe you should take your own advice, Toph.
What's the matter?
Can't handle some dirt, Madam Fussy-britches?
Oh, sorry, did I splash you, mud slug?
Are we taking a break?
Sneak attack!
Sokka, sneak attacks don't work if you yell it out loud.
Hungry for a mud pie?
I'll give you a mud pie.
Uh, guys, I thought we were supposed to be training me.
Very well, pupil.
I believe we've had enough training for today.
While Katara cleans up, let's go have some fun.
Yes! Yeah!
Look at all those messenger hawks.
You know, I've been thinking about getting one for myself.
That way, I wouldn't have to talk to anyone.
I could just send them messages.
I got to say, I like the idea of not talking to you.
So, guys, what are we gonna get with our last silver piece?
We can get more money.
Right there.
This is where you seeing people are at a disadvantage.
Everyone guesses wrong because the dealer moves the rock at the last minute.
But, I can feel it with my earthbending.
You there. Want to play a friendly game?
How could I possibly play?
I'm blind.
You don't have to see to be lucky.
"Flamey-o," Toph.
Wow, fancy guessing.
You are amazing at this.
Would you like to make the game a little more interesting?
More interesting?
How?
Well, let's say you toss in your friend's fine sword there.
Then I'll put up 20 silver pieces against it, and that's more interesting.
I'll do it for 40 silver pieces.
Forty silver pieces it is.
Sorry, little lady, but...
Huh?
I won!
Where did you guys get the money to buy all this stuff?
Toph got us money.
She scammed one of those guys in town who moves shells around all sneaky-like.
She used earthbending to win the game.
Classic.
Ah, so she cheated.
Hey, I only cheated because he was cheating.
I cheated a cheater.
What's wrong with that?
I'm just saying, this isn't something we should make a habit of doing.
Why? Because it's fun, and you hate fun?
I don't hate fun.
See? Fun.
Katara, I'll personally make you an Avatar-promise that we won't make a habit of doing these scams.
Guys, I think these scams have gone far enough.
If you keep doing them, something bad is gonna happen.
Could you for once stop being such a sourpuss and just lighten up?
Oh, I'm sorry.
You think I should be more like you?
Like some wild child?
Yeah, maybe.
Maybe then, you'd see how great we have it.
I mean, look at us.
We're traveling around the world, making easy money, having fun, with no parents to tell us what to do.
Ah, I see...
You're acting like this because of your parents.
Whatever. They were controlling over you, so you ran away, and now you act like your parents don't exist.
You act like you hate them, but you don't.
You just feel guilty.
I do hate them.
I don't think so.
I think you miss them.
But you just don't wanna deal with that, so instead you act like this crazy person.
Look, I ran away to help Aang.
You know what? It doesn't matter.
These scams put us all at risk, and we don't need that.
We've already got some third-eyed freak after us.
Speaking of that third-eyed freak I think I've come up with a name for him.
What do you think of "Sparky-sparky Boom Man"?
Just think about it.
We have enough money. You need to stop this.
I'll stop when I want to stop, and not when you tell me.
Speaking of money, I'm off to spend some.
See you guys later.
Hawky, welcome to team Avatar.
My name's Sokka, and I'm your new owner, and as such, I should warn you that there's already a lemur in our group, so I don't want to see any fighting.
Good wittle messenger hawky.
Who's got pretty feathers?
You're right, Hawky. This is bad.
Toph, when I was in town, I found something that you're not gonna like.
Well, it sounds like a sheet of paper, but I guess you're referring to what's on the sheet of paper.
It's a wanted poster, of you.
They've nicknamed you "the runaway."
A wanted poster! That's so great.
"The runaway."
I love my new nickname.
Is there a picture of me? Does it look good?
Well, yeah, actually, it does look pretty good.
But, Toph, you're missing the point.
Maybe Katara was right.
These scams are drawing too much attention to us.
Don't be such a worrywart like your sister.
Think of it this way.
Now you have plenty of money to help with the invasion plan.
Well, that is true.
I had this idea of making armor for Appa.
Here's a little extra so you can get yourself a nice map of the Fire Nation.
You know what?
Make it an atlas.
I do like expensive atlases...
Of course you do, and that's why this wanted poster is going to stay our little secret.
Sokka, tell me you didn't buy a bird.
Not just a bird. A messenger bird.
Now we can send messages all over the world, even to Gran-gran.
Wow, how does it work?
Hmm, uh, I never actually thought about that.
Hawky, Gran-gran, South Pole.
I think he gets it.
Hawky, make nice!
Bad Hawky.
Well, look who decided to join us.
Where have you two been?
Off scamming again?
Yes, we were.
And I suppose you don't think what you're doing is dangerous at all?
No, I don't.
Really?
Yes, really.
Well then, what's this?
I don't know!
I mean, seriously, what's with you people?
I'm blind!
It's a wanted poster of you.
"The runaway."
Is that what you're called now? Are you proud of this?
Where did you get that?
It doesn't matter where I got it. The fact is...
You went through my stuff.
You had no right.
Your stuff was messy, and I was just straightening up, and I happened to stumble across it.
That's a lie. You're lying, Katara.
Fine, it's a lie, but you've been so out of control lately, I knew something was up.
I knew you were hiding something, and you were.
Don't you walk away from me while I'm talking to you.
Oh, really, mom?
Or what are you going to do?
Send me to my room?
I wish I could.
Well, you can't, because you're not my mom and you're not their mom.
I never said I was.
No, but you certainly act like it.
You think it's your job to boss everyone around, but it's not.
You're just a regular kid like the rest of us, so stop acting like you can tell me what to do.
I can do whatever I want.
I don't act that way.
Sokka, do I act motherly?
Hey, I'm staying out of this one.
What do you think, Aang?
Do I act like a mom?
Well, I...
Stop rubbing your eye and speak clearly when you talk.
Yes, ma'am.
I can't be around you right now.
Well, I can't be around you.
I know, Hawky.
Why can't they just get along?
Hey, Aang, you want to test out my messenger hawk with me?
I've got an idea.
Sure.
I'm gonna send a note to Katara and say it's from Toph, who wants to apologize.
Then everyone will be friends again.
I got to say, Sokka, you continue to impress me with your ideas.
Eh, it's a gift.
"Dear Katara."
"Sorry for everything."
"Your friend, Toph."
I know this is from you, Sokka.
Toph can't write.
Ugh! You're all driving me crazy.
I can't believe we forgot Toph can't write.
Yep, we're idiots.
I guess Plan B is we send a note to Toph pretending it's from Katara.
I think we're gonna run into a similar problem...
Sorry, Hawky.
Looks like I'm gonna have to do this without your help.
Come on, we need to talk.
So, let me guess.
You brought me out here to tell me your sister's not as annoying as I make her out to be.
Nah, she's pretty much a pain.
She's always got to be right about everything, and she gets all bossy, and involved, and in your business.
Yeah, I don't know how you can deal with it.
Actually, in a way, I rely on it.
I don't understand.
When our mom died, that was the hardest time in my life.
Our family was a mess, but Katara, she had so much strength.
She stepped up and took on so much responsibility.
She helped fill the void that was left by our mom.
I guess I never thought about that.
I'm gonna tell you something crazy.
I never told anyone this before...
But honestly, I'm not sure I can remember what my mother looked like.
It really seems like, my whole life, Katara's been the one looking out for me.
She's always been the one that's there, and now...
When I try to remember my mom, Katara's is the only face I can picture.
The truth is, sometimes Katara does act motherly, but that's not always a bad thing.
She's compassionate and kind, and she actually cares about me.
You know, the real me.
That's more than my own mom.
Don't ever tell her I said any of this.
Hey, my lips are sealed.
Hi, Toph. Um, I want to...
Katara, stop.
You don't need to apologize.
I was the one being stupid.
These scams are out of control, and I'm done with them.
Actually, I wasn't going to apologize.
I was gonna say, I want to pull a scam with you.
What? You want to pull a scam?
Not just any scam. The ultimate scam.
What do you say, Toph? Just me and you.
One last go.
You in?
You know I'm in.
Now what's this idea of yours?
The plan is simple.
This wanted poster says you're worth a lot of money, ten times more than you've made in all your scams...
So, I'm gonna turn you in and collect the reward.
Then you metalbend yourself out of jail, and we're on our way.
How could you do this to me?
You betrayed me!
You brought this on yourself.
I had no choice.
You did the right thing by turning in the runaway.
The right thing is its own reward.
Well, I'm happy to hear you say that.
But... I still want the actual reward.
Of course. Right this way.
Hey, what kind of cell is this?
A wooden one.
That's her. That's the girl you were looking for.
Do you think this scam of theirs should be taking this long?
I was just wondering the same thing.
We'd better check it out.
You two behave.
Appa's in charge.
Wait, it's a trap.
Really? No kidding.
Is that why we're sitting in a wooden cage right now?
Gee, how'd you figure out it was a trap?
Not for us, Katara.
We're the bait.
He wants Aang.
Oh...
I can't believe I was so stupid.
See, this is exactly why I'm against these scams.
I knew this would happen.
But this was your idea.
I know.
I wanted to show you that I'm not so motherly.
I wanted to show you that I can have fun, too.
Katara, you are fun.
If nothing else, you're at least fun to argue with.
I know your relationship with your parents is complicated, and I shouldn't have said what I said.
It's okay.
I was really mad when you said that because, well, because maybe it's true.
I try not to think about it, but when I left, I probably really hurt them.
Where do you think they might be?
Where do you think anyone is?
Sokka, watch out!
It's sparky-sparky boom man.
You know, I'm starting to think that name doesn't quite fit.
What are we gonna do?
I don't know. I wish we had some earth or water.
We need bendables.
What about your meteor bracelet?
You could make a saw.
I left it back at camp.
I was worried they would take it.
Um, Katara?
Are you okay?
Just fine.
Well, what are you doing?
I'm making my own water.
Katara, you're a genius.
A sweaty, stinky genius.
This guy is too good.
He shoots fire from his brain.
We should split up. He can't chase us both.
Aang, get up.
Let's get out of here.
Hey, I got it.
The perfect name for that guy.
Combustion Man.
Good job, Sokka.
Now let's get out of here before Combustion Man catches us.
See? It fits so well.
Well, I'm exhausted.
Hawky, how about you, buddy?
Yeah, you're such a lazy little bird.
Katara, I need your help.
What is it, Toph?
I need you to write some things down for me.
I want to send a letter to my parents.
I'll be happy to help.
Hey, where'd Hawky go?