Water...
Earth...
Fire...
Air.
Long ago, the four nations lived together in harmony.
Then everything changed when the Fire Nation attacked.
Only the Avatar, master of all four elements, could stop them.
But when the world needed him most, he vanished.
100 years passed and my brother and I discovered the new Avatar...
An Airbender named Aang.
And although his airbending skills are great, he has a lot to learn before he's ready to save anyone.
Oof!
But I believe Aang can save the world.
You have redeemed yourself, my son.
Welcome home.
I know one thing I care about.
I care about you.
A solar eclipse is coming.
The sun will be entirely blocked out by the moon and the firebenders will be helpless.
That's the day we need to invade the Fire Nation.
The day of black sun.
I've always known that I would have to face the Fire Lord.
But now I know I need to do it alone.
This is it, the official rendezvous point for the invasion force.
How did you pick this place?
Before we split up, my dad and I found this island on a map.
It's uninhabited, and the harbor surrounded by cliffs seemed like the perfect secluded place.
Nice choice, Sokka.
And we're here four days ahead of schedule.
Wait, four days?
The invasion's in four days? Ugh!
Whatever, that's, like, four days from now.
Let's just calm down and...
Sokka's got the right idea, Aang.
We're here, we're ready.
The best thing we can do now is get plenty of rest.
I guess.
Your days of tyranny are over, Fire Lord.
I'm bringing you down.
Really?
How do you plan on doing that when you're not even wearing pants?
Oh, no.
It was just a dream, Momo.
I still have my pants.
Well, I better keep training.
Fresh fruit, Prince Zuko?
May I wash your feet, sir?
Head massage?
Hot towel?
Oh...
Prince Zuko, is something wrong?
You didn't take the palanquin.
I'm just going to Mai's house, it's not far.
It's not a prince's place to walk anywhere, sir.
Hey, how long have you been up?
A couple hours.
I got a lot more skills to refine if I'm gonna fight Ozai.
You know, there is such a thing as over training.
You don't get it, do you?
My form is bad, I'm sloppy, and I still don't know any firebending.
Not even the basics.
That's okay, Aang, the eclipse will block all firebending anyway.
You don't need to know any.
Plus, it's a stupid element.
Okay, well, I still have to work on everything else.
I better spend the whole day training.
Good night, Katara.
Good night, Sokka.
Good night, Toph.
Good night, Appa, good night, Momo.
Good night, Appa and Mo...
Go to sleep, already.
Your days of tyranny are over, Fire Lord.
I'm bringing you down.
And this time I brought pants.
So it seems.
But are you prepared for your mathematics test?
Math test?
Oh, no, I forgot all about the math test.
I've got to be ready.
Aang, it's the middle of the night.
You need to go back to sleep.
But I forgot my pants and my math test.
Aang, sleep.
Please, for me.
Tell me, if you could have anything you wanted right now what would it be?
Hmm... A big fancy fruit tart with rose petals on top.
You know, being a prince and all, I might just be able to make that happen.
That would be impressive.
Do you think you can find a fresh fruit tart for the lady?
With rose petals on top?
Excellent choice, sir.
I guess there are some nice perks that come with being royalty.
Though there's annoying stuff too.
Like that all-day war meeting coming up.
War meeting, what are you talking about?
Azula mentioned something.
I, I assumed you were going too.
I guess I wasn't invited.
Wake up, Aang.
Wake up, sleepyhead.
Rise and shine.
You overslept.
You missed the invasion.
Sokka, get up, I need to know what day it is.
What, who's talking?
Ow.
Relax, it's still two days before the invasion.
Sokka, you've got to get up and drill your rock-climbing exercises.
What?
In one of my dreams, you were running from Fire Nation soldiers trying to climb this cliff.
But you were too slow and they got you.
But that was just a dream, I'm a great climber.
Then climb that cliff, climb it fast.
Stupid Avatar, stupid cliff, stupid dream.
I can climb fast.
Don't drink that!
Why, is it poisoned?
In my dream, we were right in the middle of the invasion and you had to stop to use the bathroom.
We died because of your tiny bladder.
And you need to start wearing your hair up.
In my dream, your hair got caught in a train and...
Aang, I know you're just trying to help.
But you really need to get a grip.
You're unraveling.
You're right, I'm losing my mind.
It's like every time I think about how stressed I am, I just end up more stressed.
I'm like a big growing snowball of nerves.
Of course you are.
That's 'cause you gotta fight the Fire Lord, the baddest man on the planet.
And you better win, or we're all done for.
Sokka, you're not helping.
What?
It's true, that's the deal, he knows it.
You know what, I've got just the thing.
Get ready to be de-stressified.
These yoga stretches can really work wonders if you do them in extreme heat.
Reach up.
Reach for the sun.
Feel your chi paths clearing.
Now close your eyes.
How are you feeling?
I feel...
Really warm.
Good, good.
Go on.
Like there's this warm feeling all around me.
This heat.
Like I'm in the Fire Lord's palace and he's shooting a bunch of fireballs at me.
And the whole world is being engulfed in flames.
Maybe your stress is the kind you need to talk out.
Why don't you get right down to business and tell me what's been bothering you?
You know what's bothering me.
I have to fight the Fire Lord in a few days.
Mm-hmm... Tell me more about this... Fire Lord.
Why are you so afraid of him?
You said it yourself, he's the baddest man on the planet.
I'm supposed to defeat him and save the world.
Mmm, life does feel that way sometimes, doesn't it?
Like we're all trying to save the world from evil?
Okay, but what can I do to feel better?
Wanna try screaming into this pillow?
Hello, Zu-zu.
If you've come for a royal hair-combing, I'm afraid you'll have to wait.
So I guess there's a big war meeting coming up, huh?
And apparently I'm not welcome there.
What do you mean, of course you're welcome there.
Oh, yeah?
I guess that's why no one bothered to tell me about it.
Oh, Zuko, don't be so dramatic.
I'm certain dad wants you there.
You probably just weren't invited because it's so obvious that you're supposed to be there.
Well, were you invited?
Of course, I'm the princess.
And I'm the prince.
Exactly, so stop acting like a paranoid child.
Just go to the meeting.
Forget it, I'm not going.
All right, what you need is a good old-fashioned back-pounding to relieve your stress.
Pound away.
Aah, ow...
Toph, I think this is bruising me.
Sorry, I forgot you have baby skin.
Well, there's one other thing we can try.
Acupuncture.
Zuko, it's just a dumb meeting.
Who cares?
I don't.
Well, good, you shouldn't.
I mean, why would you even want to go?
Just think about how things went at the last war meeting you went to.
I know.
You know what will make you feel better?
Ordering some servants around.
I might be hungry for a whole tray of fruit tarts.
And maybe a little palanquin ride around town, double-time.
Thanks for everything, guys.
So do you feel less stressed, ready for a good night's sleep?
Uh, I kind of think I sort of might slightly feel a little better.
Maybe.
Then our work here is done.
Shh...
What happened, Aang?
It's the nightmares.
They just get worse and worse.
Looks like it's time for another therapy session.
No, that won't help.
Nothing helps.
There's only one thing I can do.
I'm gonna stay awake straight through to the invasion.
Invasion...
All aboard for the invasion.
You don't look so good.
You sure you can't just lie down for a little nap?
I told you, I can't go back to sleep.
Aang, staying up all night can't be good for you.
Actually, staying up all night has given me some time to think.
And I've realized some big things, Katara.
What big things?
I see everything so clearly now.
What really matters, why I'm really doing this.
I'm doing it to save the world, but more than that...
I'm doing it for the people I love.
I'm doing it for you, Katara.
Aang, what are you saying?
I'm saying... I love you.
What are we doing?
What our hearts have been telling us to do for a long, long time.
Baby, you're my forever girl.
Aang...
Uh?
I was just saying you should take a nap.
Oh, I guess kind of drifted off into a daydream.
What was your dream about?
Uh, living underwater.
Sounds neat.
Whew.
Prince Zuko, everyone's waiting for you.
What?
The high admirals, high generals, the war ministers, and the princess have all arrived.
You're the only person missing.
So... My dad wants me at the meeting?
The Fire Lord said he would not start until you arrived, sir.
Put 'em up, Fire Lord.
Hey, I'm trying to build Appa some armor here so he doesn't have to go into the invasion naked.
He's your bison.
Ozai's defense is impeccable.
I'll have to try a different approach.
You think you're untouchable, don't you, Mr. Fire Lord?
Boy, you are really starting to lose it, kid.
Momo, did you hear something?
No, but I said something.
Uh...
You, my friend, are just a few plums short of a fruit pie.
That's more like it.
I'm so tired that for a second there, I imagined you were talking to me.
Oh, Momo, let me explain.
Aang?
We're all starting to get a little worried about you.
You've been awake too long.
And you're acting downright weird.
You've got to take care of yourself.
You can't go on like this.
Look, I appreciate what you guys are saying but the stress and the nightmares...
They were just too much.
Staying awake is the best way for me to deal with it.
Yeah, leave the kid alone.
Hey, who asked you?
Guys, come on.
No, I am sick of this guy always mouthing off and telling me what to do.
Oh, you don't like it?
Well, let's go right now.
Sokka, what should we do?
About what?
About that.
Appa, Appa, Appa.
Momo, Momo, Momo.
Come on, guys, we're all on the same side.
♪ Chakras, chakras, everybody loves chakras ♪
♪ Chakras, chakras ♪
♪ Chakra sandwich tastes good, yum... ♪
Yay, yay, yay, yay, yay!
I just need to jump in a cold waterfall.
So how did it go?
When I got to the meeting, everyone welcomed me.
My father had saved me a seat.
He wanted me next to him.
I was literally at his right hand.
Zuko, that's wonderful.
You must be happy.
During the meeting, I was the perfect prince.
The son my father wanted.
But I wasn't me.
Oh, look, another hallucination.
An imaginary bed made out of clouds.
Hey, it's real.
We spent hours working on it.
We made it for you.
A good night's sleep will probably take the crazy away.
We hope.
Look, you guys keep telling me I need to sleep, but I can't.
The invasion's tomorrow.
Aang...
No, Katara, there's still so much I haven't learned.
I don't need sleep, what I need is practice.
Quick, hit me.
I'm not going to hit you.
You want me to do it?
Listen to me.
You've been training for this since the day we met.
I've seen your progress.
You're smart, brave, and strong enough.
You really think so?
We all do.
You can do this, you're ready.
You're the man, twinkle toes.
Thanks, guys.
You know what?
I think I am ready.
Your days of tyranny are over, Fire Lord.
Really, you're going to take me out?
You're not even wearing pants.
No, Fire Lord Ozai, you're not wearing pants.
No!
My royal parts are showing.